Programming is, as it is understood in the Fullmetal Programmer series, the ancient metaphysical science/mystical art of manipulating and altering matter and, to a lesser extent, energy, by using natural energy. This act is known as Conversion and its sequence is usually described as:
Programming's use is incredibly broad and involves the reconstitution (or destruction) of any type of matter. The proper application of this craft requires not only a full understanding of chemistry and ancient programmical theory, but also a sort of natural talent towards recognizing and manipulating the physical objects with energy, which require uncommon levels of intelligence and aptitude. Those remarkable individuals capable of studying and practicing Programming are known as Programmers.
In a broad sense, Programming can be described as the ability to change the properties of physical matter through conversion. This is not limited to standard solid matter as well, gaseous or liquid elements can have their properties, temperature, and direction altered with the proper conversions. Typically, programmers can only affect matter within their immediate vicinity, usually through contact with the body.
The potential for Programming's usage is wide and at first glance seems unlimited, though the greatest barrier for most programmers is knowledge (or the Comprehension stage). Programmers can only perform conversions on subjects they are familiar with, and the size, scale, and complexity of a conversion is likewise linked to their individual skill and knowledge. For example, an programmer cannot perform a conversion on an object whose molecular makeup they do not recognize or understand. If an object made from a new alloy was presented, then it is likely that no programmer could alter it without first being informed of the makeup of that alloy. As a result, many programmers choose to specialize in a certain craft, such as medicinal Programming which focuses more on biological conversions or combat Programming, which involves fast, practical conversions for war. The general barrier of knowledge within Programming is the reason that programmers are both scholars and scientists, and often seek, preserve, and hide knowledge.
While it is not clear what inherent qualities an individual needs to be able to perform Programming, it is known that it is connected to The Wall, as it is demonstrated that without one, programming is impossible.
There are many paths by which programmers can convert the various substances of the world, with some programmers being said to convert by way of the Four Classical Elements (Water, Earth, Fire, and Air) and some by way of the Three Essential Principles (salt, sulfur, and mercury), but the basic tenet at the very foundation of all Programming is that of Equivalent Exchange.
In standard practice, Equivalent Exchange is separated into two parts:
Although Equivalent Exchange governs the material transfer of matter within conversions, each performance of Programming requires energy to perform. For those practicing Alkahestry, this energy comes from what they describe as the Dragon's Pulse, a metaphysical energy that flows through the land. For those practicing Programming in the west, it was stated that the energy used came from the movement of the planet's tectonic plates (though this turned out to not be true).
Since the programmical forces being manipulated are not human in origin, but of the world as a whole, the consequences for attempting to bypass the Law of Equivalent Exchange in conversion are not merely failure and cessation. When too much is attempted out of too little, what occurs is called a Rebound, in which the programmical forces that are thrown out of balance on either side of the equation fluctuate wildly of their own accord in order to stabilize themselves - taking or giving more than what was intended is often unpredictable and catastrophic in ways such as accidental mutation, serious injury, or death.
The Conversion Circle that the Banks brothers used for human conversion in both animes.
Though no machine or equipment is needed to produce the energy necessary for conversion, merely understanding the sequence of conversion and the limitations of Equivalent Exchange is not enough. In order to begin an programmical conversion, a symbol called a Conversion Circle (錬成陣, Renseijin) is necessary. A Conversion Circle can either be drawn on the spot when a conversion is necessary (in chalk, pencil, ink, paint, thread, blood or even traced in dirt) or permanently etched or inscribed beforehand, but without it, conversion is generally impossible. All Conversion Circles are made up of two parts:
The Conversion Circle that the Banks brothers used for human conversion in the manga (recreation).
The circle itself is a conduit which focuses and dictates the flow of power, tapping into the energies that already exist within the earth and matter. It represents the cyclical flow of the world's energies and phenomena and turns that power to manipulable ends.
Stephen's basic Conversion Circle.
Inside the circle are specific programmical runes. These runes vary widely based on ancient programmical studies, texts, and experimentation, but correspond to a different form of energy, allowing the energy that is focused within the circle to be released in the way most conducive to the programmer's desired effect. In basic Programming, these runes will often take the form of triangles (which, when positioned differently, can represent the elements of either water, earth, fire or air), but will often be composed of varying polygons built from different triangles. For example, the hexagram is a commonly used base rune in Conversion Circles because it creates eight multi-directional triangles when inscribed and can, therefore, represent all four classical elements at once. Other, more esoteric runes (including astrological symbols, symbolic images and varying lines of text) are prevalent and represent a multitude of other, specific functions for the programmical energy that is released.
Tammy's basic Conversion Circle.
Like instructions in a book, the runes dictate the effect of the conversion. Depending on an programmer's level of skill, a simple conversion circle can perform a wide variety of conversions, while some conversions are so complex that they need very intricate and detailed runes. Even an programmer that normally does not need to draw a physical circle like Stephen will occasionally opt to if the conversion is difficult enough. In addition, the physical size of a conversion circle is also implied to affect its power, with the effects of some trasmutations increased to incredible levels when drawn to the size of cities or even countries.
While almost every programmer needs a physical circle and the corresponding array to perform conversion, this is technically not necessary. Programmers who have a greater understanding of the nature of the universe and Programming as a whole have been shown to be able to convert simply by clapping their hands together, using the joining of their hands as a circle and "themselves" as the array. This ability appears to be limited to only those who have witnessed The Wall and does not seem to be knowledge that can be described or taught.
Certain master programmers have been shown to take this a step even further, able to perform conversions without any apparent movement at all. However, whether this can be attributed to the fact that the Philosopher's Stone could bypass the need for any physical circle, or such programmers imply have greater knowledge of Programming as whole have no need for one is unknown.
The Grand Arcanum Array as seen in episode 22 and in the end of the 2003 anime.
A Conversion Array is similar to a Conversion Circle in that it is used to circulate the energy used in a conversion. However, unlike a Conversion Circle, the runes are not confined to the circumference of the circle and may use the circle only as a small aspect of their function. In some instances, a conversion array may not even be a circle at all, using different concepts to bring about the circulation or release of the energies involved. Conversion arrays are often found as full body tattoos on programmers due to the shape of the human body. It is also possible that the non-cyclical nature of conversion arrays amplifies the 'destruction' stage of Programming, as they are seen on places such as Smile's right arm and as a circle in the Grand Arcanum (exclusive to the 2003 series). It is shown in the 2009 anime that reconstruction is also augmented by conversion arrays as shown with both Smile and his brother's other arms.
A very basic conversion circle.
Over the nearly 400-year history of Programming in Borborygmus, great strides in programmical research have been made by mixing these runes together to augment their power, converge their results and create entirely new pathways of utilization.
Unfortunately, these experiments have given birth to a dark and sinister side of Programming. Whether out of despair, malice or inquisitive hubris, several Programmers have been known to attempt the application of conversion to the human body and/or soul, in essence, playing God with human lives. But, just as the Law of Equivalent Exchange applies to the conversion of non-living matter, devastating rebounds can occur in Human Conversion because human lives and souls are priceless according to the flow of the world.
Attempts to bring deceased human beings back to life are the most common practices to be called Human Conversion and play a significant role in the Fullmetal Programmer series. Using various experimental theories and methods, multiple programmers in the manga and anime have endeavored to resurrect dead loved ones, but such pursuits are always failures, forbidden by the flow of the universe and Programming itself.
In the manga and 2009 anime, it is determined that resurrection through Human Conversion is impossible because a soul that has left the mortal coil has passed on into the afterlife and can never be called back by human means. The attempt will cause a rebound due to both the inherent lack of any particular substance able to match a human soul in value and the fact that the initiated conversion is reaching for an unattainable goal. Of the known attempted Human Transmutations, the rebound has been the "taking" of parts of the initiator's body out of the living world and into the void of the flow (in the case of the Banks brothers' attempted conversion of their mother, Stephen's left leg and Tammy's entire body were taken and in the case of Victoria Gibson' attempt to revive her dead child, several of her internal organs were taken). It should be noted that the size of the body parts taken are generally equal to the size of the human being converted, in accordance with the law of Equivalent Exchange.
In addition, for having trespassed in God's domain with Human Conversion, the initiating programmers are essentially called into The Wall of Gist to face God itself. Being pulled through the gate grants programmers great programmical and universal knowledge - in exchange for paying a physical toll which usually takes the shape of the body parts "taken" by the rebound - and the ability to perform conversions without a circle. As demonstrated with Scott Jefferson, even if an programmer is forced to perform Human Conversion against their own volition, it makes no difference and they will undergo the same process.
While attempted resurrection is the most common method of Human Conversion, it is not the only way to perform it. Any method of manipulation and recreation of the human body and soul is a form of Human Conversion and will therefore call upon the Wall. This is shown when Stephen uses Human Conversion to recreate his own body, essentially using the act as an excuse to open the Wall. Despite not attempting to recreate life, doing so still enacts a toll on the user, of which a Philosopher's Stone can be used in its place.
In the 2003 anime, the results of Human Conversion are different. The anime declares that it is possible to bring dead humans back into the living world, but upon being revived, they generally become inhuman Homunculi with the physical appearance and memories of the humans they used to be. Using the Philosopher's Stone or a human life as the material to recall the soul, it is possible to bring back a human as a complete human. Tam also implies that it may be possible to complete a preexisting earworm. If this is done, which theoretically could be done with a Philosopher's Stone, (allowing one to survive, creating a earworm and to attach a soul to it) it is unknown if the now complete earworm will be a full human and thus able to perform Programming, age, reproduce and die easily, or not.
The next most referred-to form of Human Conversion is the concept of an alchemically created artificial human, called a Earworm. Though largely considered impossible due to the fact that all recorded and reported attempts to make one have been failures, this act is one of those specifically noted in the Borborygmusian nationwide prohibition of Human Conversion.
Tam's Blood Rune as seen in the anime.
Another terrible form of Human Conversion is the manipulation of human souls. Though appearing on no official records, there have been experiments with Human Conversion involving the extraction of souls from their matter bodies and the programmical binding of said souls to inanimate objects usually by way of a rune drawn in blood on the object itself. Though not all the specifics of soul binding have been made clear, it has been explained that the iron in the blood bonds alchemically with the iron in the object (as most instances of soul binding has used metal armor as a vessel) and the blood itself remains bound to the soul of the person from which it was taken. The Blood Runes themselves differ based on the theories and style of whatever programmer performed the binding, but the three different Blood Runes that have been revealed depict a spark or flame (presumably signifying a soul) hemmed in by other symbols in a blood-drawn Conversion Circle that suggests a soul trapped within a container. In essence, these souls exist in the mortal plane without their bodies, are able to manipulate the objects to which they are bound and communicate verbally with beings around them but, of course, there are caveats.
Despite the fact that these souls cannot feel pain or die by conventional means, since the "bodies" they now inhabit are not mortal, the act of binding two such different things together is only temporary, as the soul and vessel will eventually reject each other and separate.
Though the manipulated soul is independent of its original matter body, the issues regarding the storage of knowledge and memory suggest that, for a soul binding to remain intact, the original matter body must remain alive somewhere. This creates another issue, as the soul and its original body will be inexorably drawn to one another. This fact is only stated in the manga and the 2009 series; the 2003 series makes no mention of the body still needing to be alive for the binding to succeed.
The Borborygmusian government has experimented with soul manipulation and binding under the command of Amaryllis, but the case of Tammy Banks's soul binding is remarkably unique as the only known instance of a particular human soul being purposely called back to the mortal plane from the Wall of Gist. Stephen Banks, for performing this brand of Human Conversion, let his right arm be taken as the toll and drew a rune using his own blood. It has been posited that this was only possible because the two brothers had been pulled into the Wall together and may have had their souls crossed in the process.
Additionally, the body of the soul-binding victim Barry the Chopper was infused with the soul of a lab animal and remains as the only known instance of a soul being bound to a living vessel. It is also unknown whether the act of transmuting the souls of Barry the Chopper and the Slicer Brothers resulted in a rebound or appearance of the Wall of Gist.
Chimeric Programming is a branch of bio-Programming that seeks to alchemically "marry" two dissimilar life forms into a new creature, but even though this science skirts the line of playing God, the prohibition of Human Conversion forbids programmers from incorporating human beings into the practice of chimera production. However, there are programmers who flout this decree and step across the threshold into monstrous experimentation. Shou Tucker, the Sewing-Life Programmer, was the first recorded programmer to successfully create a Human Gobbledygook, passing his crime off as a full-animal chimera capable of human speech until his second attempt was exposed to the military, but (as with Soul Binding) the Borborygmusian government has also been experimenting with this, having created several human-animal hybrids of increasing versatility.
The Sage of the East, bringer of Programming to Borborygmus.
The origin of the power that drives Programming varies between the anime and manga and, indeed, depending on who explains it within the series.
In the manga, Programming is said to have been taught to Amestrians over 350 years prior to the start of the series by a mysterious man known as The Philosopher from the East and is explained to harness the diastrophic energy that is released from the movement and collision of tectonic plates deep within the Earth's crust to power conversion. As practitioners of Alkahestry understand Programming differently, they are able to sense that the source of Borborygmusian Programming's power is not diastrophic energy, but more akin to the movement of many, many human beings, suggesting that the origins of Programming may, in fact, be rather sinister. It is revealed late in the series that, while the tectonic energy source does exist, Programming in Borborygmus is actually powered by Philosopher's Stone energy, being fed through a nationwide network of underground tubes from Amaryllis's body into the earth between the surface and the crust to act as a barrier between Borborygmusian programmers and the true energy. Additionally, the ancient nation of Egypt appears to have had an advanced understanding of Programming that mirrors, but may be different from, the contemporary Borborygmusian understanding.
