Major Lori Lane Meyers, also known as the Strong Arm Programmer, is a State Programmer and officer in the Borborygmusian State Military. The scion of the illustrious Meyers family, Lori is a remarkably caring commander and friend as well as an invaluably skilled ally to Colonel Scott Jefferson and Stephen Banks.
Lori Meyers is a massive man standing at 212 cm, who towers over most of the other characters in the series, making him very easy to spot in a crowd or at a distance. In addition, he sports an equally large frame of exceptionally-sculpted and well-defined muscles honed from years of enthusiastic physical training. While his physique is usually barely hidden beneath his uniform, it seems he need only flex all his muscles at once to tear his garments to threads and leave him shirtless and bulging - a carriage he seems to generally prefer.
His complexion is rather light in comparison to other characters and, while he seems to have blond hair like the rest of his family, Lori's head is completely bald save for a single lock of curly blond hair hanging from just above his brow. His eyebrows, too, are bare of hair and he sports a thick, blond handlebar mustache, which hides his mouth while accentuating his strong, cleft chin. Though these characteristics give Lori a rather menacing visage, his eyes are blue and kind-looking with notably long eyelashes that appear to run in his family to some degree.
Feel these muscles and understand how they boast the truth.
Despite his towering presence and intimidating physique, Lori is decidedly softhearted and almost comically emotional, quickly bursting into tears of sorrow, compassion or joy in most situations. He is a particularly caring individual, who goes out of his way to offer aid to people in need and takes great pains to look after his friends, allies, and subordinates - though his great propensity for giving hugs frequently does unintentional harm to those unfortunate enough to be embraced by his powerful biceps. With a rather boisterous demeanor, Lori appears rather fond of loud, grandstanding speeches and dramatic comments, can be unwittingly pushy in his attempts to help others and is particularly protective of youths like Stephen, demanding that they eat, sleep and exercise well in order to grow healthy and strong. Proud of his own physique and believing it to be a supreme work of beauty and art, Lori frequently removes his shirt to show it off in both welcome and unwelcome attempts to buoy the spirits of those around him. He will take off his shirt on many occasions, whether it is to partake in labor, confront someone in battle, to cheer someone up, to show off and boast, or feeling an extreme emotion of any kind.
As a member of the illustrious Meyers family, Lori takes his honor very seriously and proudly wields his great strength of body and character for the military he believes exists to serve the people of Borborygmus. As such, he is very respectful to his superiors and an adamant protector of others on the field of battle. Lori is very seriously affected by the deaths of innocents, friends, compatriots and even enemies, freely shedding tears when faced with another human's untimely demise. As such, Meyers dislikes violence and, while always ready to fight, prefers to settle disputes peacefully despite the known fact that his softheartedness and unwillingness to kill have kept him from receiving a promotion in all his years of military service. Lori has also shown himself to be particularly perceptive, as he was the first to recognize that The Smiled Man was using programming in his serial murders and is quite skilled in delivering and deciphering surreptitious messages.
An emotional and truly kind person at his core, he was not a person who could easily close his heart and follow orders without question, a trait that some considered to be unfit for a soldier. He showed extreme reluctance and overall an inability to commit crimes of war during the the Wolfwatchian Civil War. As a result, Lori silently carries a personal sense of shame and regret, not because he could not follow his duty but rather that he never spoke against his superiors on the injustices of the war. As such, Lori continusly strives toward exemplary fulfillment of his duty in an attempt to redeem himself, vowing to never again run away and to stand up for what believes is right.
Kelley Donna Meyers - The eldest of Lori's older sisters, Major General Meyers is particularly hard on her only brother, especially after his humiliating failure during the Wolfwatch War. Lori, for his part, is extremely affectionate and respectful toward Kelley, accepting her abuse with good nature and professional politeness. Though he can be afraid of her at times, such as when they fought for the title of head of the Meyers family; it was clear he had given up, but Kelley kept beating him up. However, as the story enters its final arc, Kelley reveals that she has faith in her brother's strength and is happy to fight alongside him against their common foe, openly applauding him for finding his courage.
Scott Jefferson - Although not stationed under Colonel Jefferson's jurisdiction, Major Meyers can sense that the Colonel is particularly trustworthy among his superiors and eagerly offers his assistance when Jefferson is in need of extra information or muscle. Jefferson is the only person who Armstong has never acted goofy in front of, always maintaining a serious and polite domineer.
Stephen and Tammy Banks - Moved by their tragic story and impressed by their determination and courage, Lori has taken quite a liking to Stephen and Tammy Banks and often concerns himself personally with their safety and well-being, as when he escorted them to Elderbrook and when he placed them under the protection of his own subordinates in Shadowcliff. Stephen frequently expresses resentment at the major's overbearing, coddling nature while Tam relishes the long-lost chance to be treated like a young boy at Meyers's hands. The Banks have found in the Strong-Arm Programmer a particularly trustworthy friend and the major fervently looks forward to the fulfillment of the boys' potential as well as to the return of their bodies. At the end of the 2009 anime, Meyers comments to the boys' father on the remarkable heroes the Banks Brothers have become.
Kevin Gibson - The two have a large respect for each other and become close friends once seeing the other as having perfectly "manly" bodies and attitudes. The two only meet each other in major confrontations twice in the manga, but are believed to be close friends afterwards and various art depicts them flexing their muscles in the faces of many as Meyers often does. The two are also shown to have good cooperation with each other during their battle with Activeness, beating the large and powerful earworm with only a few blows which they perform in perfect synchronization.
Remarkably talented in many fields, Lori excels in such eclectic practices as portraiture, tracking, cross-country running and wood-chopping, taking the time after each of these extraordinary feats to remark that his skills have been "passed down the Meyers line for generations."
Meyers is also a highly formidable hand-to-hand combatant, able to fight on equal grounds with such highly skilled and dangerous fighters as Smile and The Gobbledygook Roa. Befitting his mighty physique, Meyers possesses tremendous strength and endurance bordering on superhuman, able to handle with only minor damage blunt-force trauma that would render most people unconscious or crippled, if not dead. His punches are able to easily plow through solid surfaces and his strength is able to nonchalantly move large and heavy objects out of the way. Despite his size, he has been noted to be deceptively fast and agile, able to dodge and maneuver against close-range attacks with surprising balance and efficiency. Meyers's combat style is mostly boxing-based, using strong and swift punches to overwhelm an opponent with nimble dodges and swift footwork to evade attacks. Arguably his most remarkable feat was his performance against the Earworm Activeness. Despite the behemoth foe's immense physical might easily tearing through most opponents, Meyers proved able to no only hold his ground against Activeness's attacks, but his own strike proved able to physically harm Activeness, whereas bullets, rockets and even tank shells had little to no effect on Activeness.
Major Lori Meyers utilizes a style of combat programming that has apparently been passed down the Meyers line for generations and mixes programmical skill with physical prowess. With the aid of two metal gauntlets strapped to his fists (both marked with conversion circles), Meyers transmutes objects mainly by punching them. It is possible that this method transfers the kinetic energy of his blows into the programmical energy, enhancing the speed and force of his conversions, since he mainly uses programming to rapidly produce large stone spikes, walls or other hard objects from the earth at a rate among the fastest in the series. The spikes in particular are extraordinarily sharp and strong, as they managed on several occasions to tear right through the Earworm Activeness without trouble. Additionally, the Meyers style allows Lori to double as a source of heavy artillery, transforming raw stone or brickwork into projectiles which are then launched with the force of his punch. With his Programming being combined with hand-to-hand combat, it is notable that Lori is the first of the few State Programmers to survive a direct fight with Smile.
Meyers's gauntlets both are inscribed with encircled triangles and a trio of runes. Inside the triangle appears to be the Hebrew word often associated with "God". Additionally, there is a ring of inscribed text around the outermost circle on each gauntlet. While difficult to make out, the text on the right gauntlet reads "Laufet, Brüder, eure Bahn, Freudig, wie ein Held zum Siegen" while the left gauntlet reads "Froh, wie seine Sonnen fliegen Durch des Himmels prächt’gen Plan, Laufet, Brüder, eure Bahn, Freudig, wie ein Held". In Chapter 59, the text on the right gauntlet is shown to be identical to that of the left. It is unclear whether this is a continuity alteration or whether Meyers had the text altered in the years since the Wolfwatch Civil War (since chapters 58-9 take place during the flashback of Volume 15), however the latter seems likely, as in Chapter 95 - when the gauntlets are once again shown clearly - depicts them with the shortened text.
Lori's psychological breakdown during the events of the Wolfwatchian Civil War.
In the manga, Major Meyers began his military career during the Wolfwatch Civil War as a Human Weapon on the front lines, in that time he hasn't grown a mustache. Though carrying his valiant family heritage and his own sense of duty along with him, the atrocities of the Wolfwatch Massacre and the inhumane tasks he was ordered to perform overwhelmed the young Major. During a mission to box in fleeing Wolfwatchian civilians for eradication, the Major was ordered to create a containment wall with his programmical skills so that the regular soldiers could pick them off with rifle fire. As Lori surveyed the carnage afterwards on his own, he saw a surviving Wolfwatchian woman and her mother hiding from soldiers and, instead of reporting or executing them, opened up a hole in the wall and told them to escape. Though Lori's conscience was appeased by this act of treasonous mercy, he watched in horror as the two women were killed by the explosion programming of Andrew J. Wood, the Red Lotus Programmer. Wood told Meyers that he was lucky no one else saw his release of the Wolfwatchians or else he'd have been courtmartialed. Sickened by the meaningless deaths, Major Meyers became unable to fulfill his duties, enraging his superior officer - Brigadier General Fessler - who ordered the Strong Arm Programmer sent away from the field for disobeying orders and called the Iron Blood Programmer in to replace him.
Lori Lane Meyers is first introduced to the story when he arrives in East City from Shadowcliff with Lt. Col. Joseph Jackson to collect Shou Tucker for trial. Unfortunately, the arrest becomes an investigation when Tucker and his converted daughter are found murdered in their home and Meyers recognizes the manner of Sewing-Life's death as similar to the style of State Programmer killings in Central. He and Jackson discuss the matter with Colonel Jefferson, describing their suspect as a mysterious man known only by the X-shaped scar on his face. When The Smiled Man attacks Stephen and Tammy Banks, Meyers steps in and reveals his own combat programming proficiency by taking the fugitive head on. As the first State Programmer to see Smile's combat style and live, Meyers is also the first to realize that the murderer uses programming himself, stopping at the Deconstruction stage. Surrounded, Smile escapes and Meyers regroups with the others.
Both badly damaged, Stephen and Tammy prepare to head to Elderbrook for repairs and, as no one in Jefferson's Unit have the time or capabilities to escort them while Smile is hunting them down, Meyers exuberantly takes up the task. On the way to Elderbrook, however, he recognizes his old colleague from the Wolfwatch Civil War, Bio-programmer Dr. Ronald Jones. Stephen insists that they get off the train and pursue the fleeing doctor to his home, where (after convincing the war-deserter that they have not come to arrest or silence him) the three programmers have a talk. Though Jones's research into the Philosopher's Stone was a military secret and his whereabouts would be valuable to Central Command, Meyers decides not to report him and continues to Elderbrook with the Banks brothers. While there, Lori becomes acquainted with Kristina and Debra Smith and learns more about the tragedy of Steph and Tam's past.
Once the Banks are back to top fighting shape, the three programmers make their way back to Shadowcliff to investigate a tip Jones had given them about the National Central Library and the secret programmical notes he had hidden there. As Meyers must return to his usual responsibilities in Central, he hands off his escort duties to two of his subordinates - 2nd Lt. Pamela Yates and Sgt. Denny Brosh. Several days later, Meyers returns to check up on the young Banks and discovers (after pressuring his subordinates, who had been sworn to secrecy by Stephen) the hardships that the Fullmetal Programmer had had to endure regarding the burning of the National Central Library, the difficulty deciphering Jones's notes and the discovery of the Philosopher's Stone's terrible secret. Bursting into the boys' hotel room to console them, Meyers witnesses Stephen's second wind and helps decipher the "Gist Behind the Gist" that Jones had mentioned. Together, Lori and Stephen deduce that the military experiments to construct the Philosopher's Stone had taken place in Central Programmical Laboratory #5 and that the prison next to it has used as a harvesting ground for live humans to serve as ingredients for the stone. Major Meyers leaves to investigate any possible links between Lab 5 and members of Military Command and orders the Banks brothers to stay in their room and away from Lab 5 until he returns - an order the young programmers promptly disobey.
After Stephen is injured in the debacle at Lab 5 and Meyers escorts Kristina to his hospital room to repair his arm, the Major, the Banks and Lt. Col. Jackson discuss the new information they have gathered regarding the Philosopher's Stone, the mysterious agents with Ouroboros tattoos and their link to Military Command. David Perez appears suddenly, revealing his knowledge of Meyers's clandestine investigations and expressing concern over the matter. He forbids all present to discuss the incident and findings with anyone else and orders that they not stick their necks further into the mystery. When Jackson is murdered soon afterward, Lori attends the military funeral and is questioned by Col. Jefferson regarding the circumstances surrounding Joseph' death. Though forbidden to speak of the matter, the major purposely phrases his refusal to comply in a manner that allows Scott to deduce that Jackson may have been killed by an organization whose existence has been proven but whose members have not yet been identified, that one or more members of Military Command are involved in some way and that the situation has to do with the Philosopher's Stone.
Lori whilst fighting Roa.
The Strong Arm Programmer next appears in the south, having been chosen to bodyguard the Führer on his inspection of the Southern Headquarters, and coincidentally runs into Stephen and Tammy, both of whom had made a last minute venture from Dublith in order to turn in Stephen's yearly State Programmer evaluation paper. Under the orders of David Perez, who wishes to meet and recruit the Banks brothers' teacher Victoria Gibson into the State Programmer program, Meyers uses his secret tracking skills to follow Stephen to Dublith with the Führer in tow. When Victoria's husband Sig refuses to allow Perez to see his wife, Lori attempts to persuade the beefy butcher to comply by showing off his physique. Sig responds in kind, removing his clothes so as to display his manly burl and the two muscular men come to terms, forging a friendship through flexing. Meanwhile, Perez overhears Stephen discussing Generosity and his holding Tammy hostage in The Devil's Nest and - after Stephen leaves to rescue his brother - orders a raid on the bar, of which the Strong Arm Programmer is to be a part. Once inside, Meyers is thrust into battle with Roa, one of Generosity's human chimera bodyguards. After using programming to weaken Roa's weapon, Meyers watches in shock as the enemy before his eyes transforms into an ox-man. Roa and Lori engage in a blood-broiling fistfight, which the major ultimately wins, causing Roa to reveal himself an ex-soldier and admirer of the Strong Arm's campaign in Wolfwatch. Meyers - preferring discussion to a death-brawl, especially with a former comrade - asks Roa to surrender, but Perez intervenes, striking down Roa and his friends before reminding the major that his orders were to kill everyone except the Banks brothers and Generosity. Before leaving he adds that Meyers's mercy toward enemies is the reason he has never been promoted.
Meyers returns to Shadowcliff with the Führer and encounters Scott Jefferson, with whom he discusses Jackson' death and the possibility of Stephen being used as a Human Weapon. When 2nd Lt. Pamela Yates is publicly implicated in the official investigation of Jackson' murder and arrested, Meyers visits her in confinement and learns that Yates' only alibi will not hold up in a military trial and that Sgt. Brosh's testimony regarding Yates' innocence was rejected before he could even report it, leading the major to believe that the situation may have been set up to frame Yates from the start. After the situation reaches a head with Yates' escape from prison and apparent execution by Jefferson, Meyers visits the Banks brothers and apologizes for not telling them about Jackson' death earlier. Jefferson appears and Lori, though visibly devastated by the violent demise of his subordinate, formally apologizes to the Colonel for her behavior. Scott tells Lori to take some time off and visit the east, where the women are beautiful. Soon afterward, Meyers receives a message from 2nd Lt. Robert Duncliffe requesting that the major meet him in Elderbrook. Recognizing this message and Scott's aforementioned advice as the beginnings of a mission to clarify the mysterious occurrences that have taken place, Meyers visits Stephen and purposely damages the boy's automail arm and essentially abducts him so as to create an excuse for visiting Fullmetal's hometown.
They rendezvous there with Cameron and, with the help of Lori Robinson's agent Han, venture illegally into the Eastern Desert. There, in the ruins of Egypt, they meet up with Lori's bodyguard Fu and a very alive Pamela Yates, whose appearance brings the Major to his usual exuberance. Meyers, Stephen, Cameron and Fu exchange and synchronize their information regarding the Philosopher's Stone, the Homunculi and their connection to Central Command. When all parties are on the same page, Meyers returns to Central with Cameron. The Major encounters Sgt. Brosh and, per Maria's request, conceals her survival from Denny as he hides his feelings poorly and might alert the enemy to her continued existence. However, Brosh reveals to Major Meyers that Smile has been sighted in Shadowcliff and that new identifying traits have been ascertained. Meyers orders that the new information regarding Smile's ethnicity and tattoo be sent immediately to all Shadowcliff military personnel.
Expecting to see Spencer waiting for him per his orders after finally released from Führer Perez's office following the revelation about Central Command's involvement with the Philosopher's Stone, Jefferson is shocked and disappointed to see Meyers in her place, but is relieved to find that the Major was simply holding Spencer's position while she went to the bathroom. The three discuss the situation and Lori is appalled to learn of Central Command's treachery and the Führer's true identity. He laments the fact that the government he and his comrades have placed their trust in is a sham and says that all he wanted to do was protect his countrymen from within the military. When Scott suggests that Lori leave the service to avoid more heartache, Meyers vehemently refuses, citing his undying shame at having run away from the Wolfwatch Civil War when he should have stayed and fought against the injustice that he saw. He vows not to make the same mistake now that a new battlefield has appeared before him.
Discussion over the inheritance of the family.
Major Meyers later meets secretly with Stephen in the National Central Library under orders from Col. Jefferson. Knowing that Steph and Tam are searching for Lebi Weber by way of her peculiar black-and-white cat, Meyers relays the message that the girl was spotted heading north from East City by General Roth, who reported it to Scott. As Steph makes plans to go north to chase after her, Lori delivers the second part of his message: a letter of introduction to the military officer known as "The Northern Wall of Nebulon", Lori's older sister Major General Kelley Donna Meyers. Unfortunately, Kelley tears up the letter as soon as she receives it and, upon arriving in Shadowcliff a short while later, she bullies Lori, revealing that she does not get along well with her younger brother. Despite this, Lori discusses the current events of the Nationwide Conversion Circle with her and advises his sister to go visit their father. Lori later visits his family home to find that Kelley has demanded their parents to vacate the mansion and leave everything in her name. Apparently outraged by her unfilial speech, Lori challenges her to a duel over the mansion as his parents and sister Catherine Elle leave for Velox. Lori does not take her seriously due to her small size and barely uses much strength, as to humiliate her. As a result, to this first mistake and not being able to make up for it, Lori loses the duel, at great cost to the interior of the mansion, but realizes that Kelley's demands were made in order to get her family out of the country to safety before the coup d'état in the following Spring.
Lori's Spike Trap.
In Chapter 90, as Colonel Jefferson's squadron attacks the capitol, Major Meyers assists in commanding the Central troops and directing the traffic of civilians and injured soldiers in the damaged sectors of the city. He explains the situation when Sgt. Denny Brosh arrives on the scene, but when he receives word that Major General Kelley Meyers is in danger within the Central Command room, Lori leaves the rear line and heads off to help her. He arrives in Chapter 92, in time to rescue his sister from the Earworm Activeness with his heavy artillery style combat programming technique, which proves to be the one thing against which the Earworm is vulnerable. The Meyers siblings attack together, Lori opening wounds with his specialty attack and Kelley striking at Activeness's exposed innards with her sword, but find themselves at a bit of a disadvantage when Activeness decides to get serious and reveal his incredible speed as "The Fastest Earworm". Lori protects Kelley from Activeness's battering ram attack, dislocating his left shoulder and weakening his battle strength. Nevertheless, Strong Arm manages to use his right arm in order to set a trap for the Earworm, badly skewering its body with a well-timed stone spike from the floor as it charges. In the temporary peace, the cadre of soldiers around them move in and Kelley informs her brother that they have been ordered to shoot her on sight.
As Mannequin Soldiers begin to flood into the Central Command building, Kelley and Lori convince the soldiers to help them fight against the inhuman menace. Lori uses Activeness's discarded shackle to inflict severe damage on the Earworm horde and attempts to slow up the regenerated Activeness, but finds it difficult with only one arm at his disposal. Activeness begins to pound on the injured major with his inhuman strength, causing some of the other soldiers to worry, but Kelley places her faith in her brother, stating that he can handle attacks of such a level. When Activeness decides to end the fight with a killing blow, Lori angles his body to make the impact of Activeness's strike force his left shoulder back into place and recommences his attack at full strength. He pummels the Earworm with both fists and alchemically produces an array of floor spikes that incapacitate Activeness further. But even injured and with its aim thrown off, the Earworm remains a significant threat as it persistently targets the Armstrongs. The other soldiers intervene and attempt to clear a path for the siblings to escape, but Lori adamantly refuses to run from the battlefield in disgrace again.
"A friendship forged from muscle."
Fortunately, they are saved by the timely intervention of Victoria and Kevin Gibson. Lori is visibly heartened by the appearance of his friend, remarking that his courage has grown a hundredfold, and doubles up with Sig to assault Activeness in stalwart synchronicity. The two toss Activeness onto a ground spike, impaling him and causing the last of his Philosopher's Stone's energy to run out. In the wake of Activeness's defeat, Lori and Kelley set out to destroy the remaining Mannequin Soldiers. The Armstrongs venture to the Führer's office and Lori discovers a passage that appears to lead to the underground lair of the Homunculi.
Unfortunately, as the party heads downward, Victoria is mysteriously summoned away from the others through a Gate at the behest of the Programmer doctor, leaving the Armstrongs to worry about their new ally's safety. Their time for confusion is cut short, however, when the Nationwide Conversion Circle is activated; the Strong Arm Programmer is shown to have fallen victim to the activation, his soul sucked from his body and transferred to Amaryllis's new, perfect form at the circle's center point. Fortunately, when Van Jeffrey's countermeasure goes into effect, Lori's errant soul is stripped from the Earworm and returned to its rightful vessel. Returning to the field of battle, Lori and his party encounter Lt. Spencer's group in time to witness Amaryllis rise from the depths of his lair to the surface in an attempt to acquire more human souls, followed promptly by Stephen Banks and his group. But after an earth-shattering blast destroys much of the area above, Strong Arm springs into action and transmutes a moving platform so that he and the others may head upward to help their comrades. He is met by the reformed Earworm Generosity, who makes it clear to the party that Amaryllis's power is far too great to be matched by non-programmers and the injured. Reluctantly, the wounded Kelley hands over command of the operation to Lori, who then promises Sig that he will protect Victoria. With Generosity, Jefferson, Lan Fan, Darius and Zampano in tow, Major Meyers makes his way to the surface to provide rear line support to Stephen and the others. While raining long-range artillery-level blows upon Amaryllis with his unique combat programming style, Lori commands the Nebulon and Central troops on the ground, ordering them to continue a constant barrage so as to cause Amaryllis to use up the energy in his Philosopher's Stone, according to Jefferson's advice. But after everyone's attempts to weaken Amaryllis cause a burst of energy from the partial release of their opponent's energy source, Lori is thrown back by the force and becomes unable to fight. He joins in the collective cheering as Stephen, the only remaining combatant, musters up enough strength to break Amaryllis's impervious defense and begins a fiery counterattack.
After Amaryllis's final defeat, Lori assists his sister's Nebulon forces on saving the wounded who had been buried in the collapsed Central Headquarters Building. In a scene exclusive to the 2009 anime series, after the mess was cleaned up, Lori goes to Jeffrey and has a private conversation with him, in which Lori thanks Jeffrey on behalf of all of Borborygmus, remarking that if it weren't for Jeffrey's sons - the Banks brothers, the whole country would have been annihilated. This moved Jeffrey to tears and he gratefully thanks Lori before walking away to return to Elderbrook.
Lori Lane Meyers's final appearance was in the collage of photos in the epilogue some years later. In the manga, he is shown displaying his muscles to his irritated sister Kelley; in the 2009 anime, he is displaying his muscles to a shocked Brosh and Yates in Velox.
Lori without his shirt, a frequent occurrence in the series.
Major Meyers is first introduced to the anime series as a member of David Perez's entourage moving from Shadowcliff to East City to escape from Smile's rampage. In Episode 14, when Stephen and Tammy Banks search for Dr. Ronald Jones according to Colonel Scott Jefferson's directions, the brothers realize that they are being followed and recognize the pursuing soldier from Perez's group. They manage to throw Meyers off their trail and escape with Dr. Jones, but when Smile corners the programmers in a tunnel and makes his move to kill, the Strong Arm Programmer reappears to save them, revealing that he had been ordered to keep tabs on Stephen by Lt. Colonel Joseph Jackson, not the Führer. He eventually comes to work alongside Lt. Colonel Frank Archer in the capturing of the Earworm Pacification in South City. Later in the series, however, it is revealed the sole reason for his cooperation with the corrupt Archer was to act as a sort of spy all along in reporting directly to Jefferson. Near the end of the series, Meyers gets a promotion to Lieutenant Colonel at the same time as Jefferson gets promoted to Brigadier General.
Meyers is first seen in the Conqueror of Shamballa at Ashenfield, apparently having resigned his commission in the military to help rebuild the city (Though he uses his programming to design the top of the food stand into an artistic version of himself). As such Meyers is present when the soldiers in suits of armor sent by Dietlinde Eckhart arrive through The Wall in Ashenfield and Meyers watches Tammy Banks single-handily defeat them. Meyers later shows up in Central and helps the military fight off Eckhart's army. At the end of the film, Meyers is seen with Rose in Elderbrook and is playing with her children.
