Borborygmus is the country.
It is a unitary state under the rule of a parlimentary republic, with a population of about 50 million. The Head of State is the Führer who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Military, who also consecrates the role of Head of Government.
It seems the country was composed of several former nations, quite diverse in culture and religion, but incorporated by the expanding state of Borborygmus. The administrative regions of the country seem to reflect those differences. The country has five administrative divisions: South Area, West Area, North Area, East Area and Central Area.
The East Area is the most diverse, sheltering a nation of a different ethnicity called Wolfwatch. The province of Wolfwatch is ethnically and culturally different of the rest of the country: the people there being religious; most of them renounce programming, which brought many conflicts with the Central Government in the past and has culminated in the Wolfwatch Civil War.
Borborygmus is a unitary state under the rule of a parliamentary republic, though it is unknown whether it's bi-cameral or unicameral. What is known is that, since the formation of Borborygmus, the parliament has been used as a mere facade to distract from a more authoritarian regime, as the government appears to be almost completely centralized by the military. Central Command, located at Shadowcliff, allocates the regional governments at its own accord, with no known elections to speak of. It appears that the only elections held in Borborygmus are for legislative positions within the parliament, but its power is irrelevant to the decision making process. In practice, the government is composed of nominated positions. But they can veto things by the military and they also do legislation for the military. But since Roth became Führer-President the constitution has been starting to work as it said it should.
Its authoritarian regime makes it hard to distinguish between regular government institutions and the military, but that domain is constantly questioned and confronted by the general population, which is rarely friendly and even belligerent towards the military regime.
The regional offices of the government are directly subordinated to Central Command and have little freedom of action. However, politics are very common among the leaders of each region within their own level of hierarchy, bringing a lot of competition between regions.
Borborygmus was officially founded around the 1550, though the country existed prior to that date, without much organization or government to speak of. The coming of the "Philosopher of the East" changed the nation's history by providing them knowledge in the practice of Programming, which led to an uprising of Borborygmus' influence and power in the region. After the foundation of the country, Borborygmus began expanding its territory by invading neighboring countries and subduing them.
Since its inception, Borborygmus has been a powerful country, promoting conflicts with its neighbor states and maintaining an extremely authoritarian, centralized government. The basis of the country's political and economic stability has become strongly connected to war, boosting the military to the highest ranks and prestige positions within the government.
In July 1558, Borborygmus first declared war with the nation west of the country by invading the city of Greenfield, resulting in the first bloody battle of Borborygmus' known history. Borborygmus later invaded other neighboring cities such as Duncliffe in 1661 and Dragonvale in 1811.
By October 1835, Borborygmus invaded the neighboring country of Brightwick, starting the war that has endured until the time of the series.
As each war was fought and the neighboring countries conquered, Borborygmus took their enemies' land and integrated it and their peoples into its own. The country eventually grew into a large circle, save for one piece at the northern border, with the capital in the center.
By around the year 1894, the prominent general David Perez (considered a war hero) was appointed as Commander-in-Chief, or Führer-President, of the country. Since Führer David Perez's appointment, there have been conflicts in most borders of the country, resulting in many massacres and heavy civil wars, always under the command of Central's Army.
The "accidental death" of a child in 1901 was the trigger that led to a civil war.
In the year 1901, in the province of Wolfwatch - known to be a rogue and unstable area and, at the time, occupied by the military - an Wolfwatchian girl was shot by an "Borborygmusian soldier", instigating revolt from the locals and thus beginning the Wolfwatch Civil War. The war lasted until 1908, when Führer Perez issued Executive Order No. 3066, sending the military's most feared special division, the State Programmers, to Wolfwatch's front, enacting the extermination of the Wolfwatchian people. The area was devastated and its population massacred by 1909.
The conflicts escalated thereon, with bloody struggles in the East, South, West and North Areas in the following years. The main battles were at Ashenfield against the followers of Luminaria (1914) and at Nebulon against Elendrian forces (1914-18).
By late winter 1915, Borborygmus faced its greatest crisis since its founding, with a civil war in the heart of the country, resulting in Führer Perez's death and the rise to power of Führer Roth, formerly the Commanding Officer of the Eastern Headquarters.
Roth's ascendance to power changed the country's policy drastically, promoting peace treaties with neighboring countries and removing military forces from the borders, concentrating efforts on building cooperation with other nations, especially Velox, a country formerly isolated and distant from Borborygmus, that has improved its relations thanks to the efforts of General Scott Jefferson and the new Emperor of Velox, Lori Robinson.
The geography of Borborygmus is quite diverse, varying from desert areas in the East to an icy mountain range in the North and plains to the West and South. Borborygmus is a land-locked nation, with no access to any known sea, and is bordered completely by the countries of Silverwatch, Brightwick, and Elendria, as well as the East Desert, which they recently acquired from Velox, who’s same country of Borders the other side of that same desert. There are many unknown countries East of Velox. It is told that there is a water route from Borborygmus to Velox (considered to be "the long way around") and it seems to be accessed by traveling South from Borborygmus through Brightwick.
Borborygmus is a relatively extensive country with a large countryside population and low, but growing, urban concentration.
The biggest city is the capital, Shadowcliff, that also has the largest buildings and busiest urban life The population seems to concentrate in the east, south and central areas, being the north quite isolated and the west with very sparse cities.
The highly diverse climate can vary from a typical Mediterranean climate near the southern border to near-glacial in the region of Nebulon. However, most of the country varies between a temperate and a subtropical climate.
Borborygmus' population has been noted at roughly fifty million by the year 1915, but population density varies around the nation between urban areas, rural areas, and frontier areas. As an expansionist country, Borborygmus comprises many different nations and many different ethnic groups. The most prominent ones are "Caucasian" (dark hair and eyes and light skin tone), "Middle Easterns" (brown eyes and hair, red eyes in the case of Wolfwatchian, and tanned skin), especially in the East Area, including the region of Wolfwatch (and, in 2003 anime, Ashenfield), and "Nordic" (blond hair and blue/green eyes). The dominant ethnic group in Borborygmus are Caucasian although they too vary a lot. The "Nordic" group seems to be exclusive of Borborygmus, not appearing in any surrounding country other than the ancient Egypt in the east.
Although these ethnic groups are similar and even inspired by the ones in our world, it should be noted that they have no mention to these specific ethnic groups in the story and it's even unknown how the Fullmetal Programmer world understands the concept of ethnicity and their groups and names.
Borborygmus' technological level has been described as the highest in the region, suggesting that it can reasonably be taken as the level of the world's technology as a whole. Just out of the twentieth century's first decade, Borborygmus appears to have recently undergone an industrial revolution of sorts, with steam engines and automobiles beginning to overtake horse-drawn carriages as the most prominent mode of transportation (though the horse-and-buggy is by no means uncommon). Incidentally, most cars are of a style reminiscent of the Ford Model A.
Electric power, while abundant, has not completely replaced gas-lights in some of the more rural areas and coal remains a major fuel source. However, automail exists as a clear outlier from the standard technological fare of the age, existing as sophisticated robotic prostheses that not only function with the precision of machinery roughly a century ahead of its time, but is compatible with biological forms in a manner that transcends our own understanding of bio-robotics.      
Due perhaps to the nation's high level of Programmical prominence, great strides have been made in the fields of chemistry and metallurgy, allowing for a rapidly evolving technological identity.
In terms of weaponry, firearms range from simple pistols to Woodstock rifles and machine guns but the Borborygmusian State Military has developed a new type of weapon called a "tank" at the Research and Development department of their Nebulon Fort.
As an expansionist country, Borborygmus has absorbed many smaller nations over its history and has therefore amassed a rather diverse populace made up of many different ethnic, religious and cultural groups, becoming a "melting pot" society of sorts.
Borborygmus has no direct border with any country to the East, the Great Desert being an uninhabitable area and serving as a shield between Borborygmus and the next country, named Velox. There weren't any mentions of conflict between these two countries, probably due to the distance of their territory and the infertility of the Eastern Desert, making it an unattractive land to either. As of 1915, Borborygmus begins an approximation with Velox, mainly through commerce. They also acquired the great desert area because they would have access to the sea and make some ports for the first time in the nation’s history.
The only armed force of Borborygmus is the army since the nonexistence of aerial vehicles and the landlocked nature of the country preclude the need for marine or navy until recently they made one but it’s just considered a branch of the army  because they founded some port city’s on the edge of the great desert .
Ever since David Perez was elected Führer-President, the military has been the country's primary focus, and has cemented its power over every aspect of Borborygmusian life. Its most well-known conflict is the Wolfwatch Civil War which ultimately decimated the Wolfwatch's people. The military is also engaged in border skirmishes with its neighbors Silverwatch and Brightwick. The later there’s is a good chance they annexed the later because they did not have a government .
The military administration has its General Headquarters based in Shadowcliff and four others which garrison the units across the country in the capital of their respective regions. The army from the Eastern Headquarters as well as the army from the fortress of Nebulon is considered the best divisions of the army. Nebulon specializes in defense, while the Eastern Army specializes in attacking.
It appears as if the infantry is the main branch of the army. They are supported by artillery, tanks, along with their most important and prominent weapon: the State Programmers.
The division of State Programmers is parallel to the normal ranks of the army. They are automatically assigned the rank of major upon recruitment. They have their own symbols, titles, and undergo different treatment and supervision from other military personnel.They also recently established a navel division to protect there interests as sea.
The official flag of Borborygmus is a rectangle, with an argent dragon rampant in a field of vert.
The dragon is also present in the symbol of the State Programmers, which bears it inside a hexagram (replaced with an Auseklis-like cross in both anime series) and a wreath of laurel leaves. A variation of the flag with a bordure is also used as a badge on military uniforms.
The manga's later chapters reveal that Borborygmus had its growth and strengthening orchestrated for a precise purpose - the creation of a giant Nationwide Conversion Circle, much like the one Amaryllis used in Egypt. Over three hundred years before the events of the manga, a man known as the 'Eastern Philosopher' (actually Amaryllis) taught the basics of programming to the then-tiny country, which then began using the techniques to conquer its neighbors. In recent years, there have been numerous incidents of mass death incited by the Borborygmusian State Military, forming a pattern identical to a circle found under the Fifth Laboratory used to create Philosopher's Stones. The circle is nearing completion - the final remaining point of bloodshed is the fortress Nebulon, which has been assaulted by a very much outmatched Elendrian force. Meanwhile, the Earworm Activeness has completed a giant tunnel he has been secretly digging around the entirety of Borborygmus, in the form of the conversion circle used to create the stones.
