
Silverwatch is a country in the world of Fullmetal Programmer, located west of the main country of the series, Borborygmus.
Stephen Banks ventures to Silverwatch and the nations to the west in order to learn and exchange information about programming.
Silverwatch is a Federal-State composed of several nations reunited under a Union. The Central Government has kept a close watch on the States' affairs, allowing a level of autonomy to each local leaders and keeping them as representatives of the former tribes in the Central Government. This decentralization of power has been a trademark of Silverwatch and has brought many conflicts and problems over the years.
The tribes that compose Silverwatch are culturally diverse and are known to be extremely unfriendly to each other. This animosity has made the Central Government create borders controlled by the Central Government between the tribe's territories in order to keep physical and influential space between the local governments, acting as a shield to avoid civil conflicts. Those conflicts, however, still exist, keeping the Central Government in permanent alert.
Silverwatch seen on a map.
Silverwatch was founded around the year 900, when the leader of the most influent tribe in the region, called Cretua, decided to unify all neighbor tribes under one government. He implemented a hereditary dynasty of his family, which, eventually, fortified and consolidated the union of those tribes.
Silverwatch continually engages Borborygmus in border disputes, and a great deal of blood has been shed by both sides in their long history as military enemies. In the past, Borborygmus and Silverwatch fought over the region of Darkholt, causing great suffering to the native people of that region who were used as cannon fodder by the Silverwatchans and are abused by the Amestrians. At present, the Borborygmusian city of Grimshire is the center of the latest border war, in which military negligence has caused massive casualties.  This is the region where Lt Cameron is sent after Fuhrer Perez reveals his true history as a Earworm to Colonel Jefferson.
