Stephen Banks, commonly shortened to just Steph, is the titular main protagonist of the Fullmetal Programmer series. He is the older brother of Tammy Banks. Once he becomes a State Programmer, he is given the official title of Fullmetal Programmer, which becomes a second nickname for him that is often shortened to just Fullmetal.
Like his brother, he is the victim of a failed Human Conversion experiment to bring back their late mother, which ultimately resulted in him losing his left leg and right arm and Tammy his entire body. In an effort to restore their bodies to their original states, the brothers set out on a quest to find the legendary Philosopher's Stone, the only known way to get around the Law Of Equivalent Exchange. He goes through considerable lengths to accomplish this, including becoming the youngest State Programmer in history at the young age of 12.For most the story, Stephen is 15 years old.
Stephen is small boy for his age, standing at only 149 cm (4'11") at the beginning of the series, despite his attempts to appear taller, (due to the notation that he cannot stand regular milk). He wears his golden-blonde hair long - usually tied in a braid that hangs down to his shoulders, but sometimes forgoing the braid for a simpler ponytail. He parts his bangs in the middle so that they frame his face on either side as they fall and, in the center of the parting, he leaves a single strand of hair sticking up like an antenna. Steph's eyes, too, are gold, signifying his Egyptian ancestry. It is revealed in one of the Fullmetal Programmer art books that the reason why Stephen wears all black is to hide any oil stains that he may obtain from his automail.
As a result of his programmical dismemberment, Stephen was fitted with full steel automail prosthetics custom crafted by Kristina and Debra Smith. His left leg from just above the knee down is automail and his automail right arm reaches all the way up to his shoulder; both are designed so that their outer shells resemble modernized plate mail.
After Stephen travels to the northern area, he is refitted with new, cold-climate type automail limbs. Designed to be rich in carbon to prevent frost damage and lighter to help Stephen's movement, they are both significantly thinner than his previous models and even appear more lustrous, with a more prominent silver tint than the old steel versions. At the end of the series, Stephen keeps his automail leg and the scars from the installation of his arm remain indefinitely on his right shoulder.
Steph wears as his trademark a bright red, long-sleeved, hooded cloak whose tail comes down to his upper calves. Emblazoned in black on the back is a Flamel, signifying his tutelage under the master programmer Victoria Gibson. It is likely that Stephen fashioned this cloak for himself, as he needs to repair it often. 
Though Steph's clothes vary over the course of the series, he seems particularly partial to black and will nearly always dress in black trousers and some sort of black shirt under his coat. In his usual outfit, Steph primarily wears a sleeveless black shirt with a black jacket that has silver/white lining along the edges, along with a red 'trench coat'-type jacket. This is his main outfit, and over the course of the manga, the jacket undergoes multiple changes. This is seen at the beginning of the manga where the jacket is longer and is tucked into his belt. However, when he first leaves Elderbrook, it hangs over his belt and has a zipper on top. The most common version portrays the jacket being connected at the top with a button, and falling slightly short of waist-length, making it possible to see his black shirt. He also wears a wide brown leather belt to which he keeps his silver State Programmer pocket watch affixed.
As part of his attempts to seem taller, Stephen is rarely seen without his elevator shoes - black leather boots with thick, red soles. Additionally, he frequently wears white gloves when in public to conceal the fact that his right arm is artificial.
It is likely that his general outfit is meant to convey a red, black, and white motif, as these three colors (as well as the gold color of his hair and eyes) are considered significant in traditional programming.
On the surface, Stephen displays an immature sort of personality. He is decidedly stubborn and strong-willed, frequently letting his pettiness and vindictiveness get the better of him and often has to be restrained or reprimanded by Tam or whoever else is present. He is somewhat selfish and self-absorbed, generally acting more out of self-interest than any sort of philanthropy as well as taking several opportunities to stroke his own ego or flaunt the governmental power and monetary license of his military position. He is largely hostile towards figures of authority and feels little incentive to follow orders with which he disagrees, earning him the distinction of being a loose cannon of sorts.
Stephen is also rather quick-tempered, resorting more often to steel-fisted violence than calm negotiation to settle disputes (even going so far as to suggest that refraining from hitting Amy because of her gender is a sexist notion and, therefore, against his principles). He has a reputation for being foul-mouthed and is an incurably sarcastic cynic, only too happy to bluntly and harshly relieve others of their comfortable delusions regarding God, reality, or their own self-importance. Stephen has also displayed a propensity towards impatience and an inability to sit still for long, which perhaps contributes to his love of travel.
However, for those few people who have made an impact on him, Steph shows his deeper nature to be one of marked selflessness, unflinching loyalty, and great compassion. As someone who has had to suffer greatly at such a young age, Stephen cannot ignore the true suffering of others and becomes sympathetic upon sensing pain and resolve in people's hearts. Though his solemn advice to such people is often tempered with brusque criticism, it is only because he genuinely wishes to place them on the most direct path forward. As one who has to struggle with a maimed body, he urges those with healthy bodies to use their strong legs to move forward, and as one burdened by the mistakes of his past, he stresses the necessity of people taking responsibility for their own errors. Though he will intervene on behalf of the oppressed if he concludes that a situation has called for it, Steph tends to help only those with the will - but not the means - to help themselves, in which case his recklessness and disdain for authority often has him bending the rules to dole out a Robin Hood-esque justice in accordance with his strong belief in the concept of Equivalent Exchange, earning him notoriety and popularity as a "hero of the people."
Though he is quick to resort to violence and combat to resolve many a situation, Steph has an immense respect for human life in all aspects. Few things anger him more than the mistreatment of others and he considers all those he meets as human and worthy of respect, no matter their mental, financial, or physical circumstance. Despite his status as a soldier and State Programmers being referred to as "human weapons", Steph refuses to kill even under life-threatening circumstances. Although some around him consider this a weakness, he is unflinching in his own personal morales and is willing to accept whatever consequences come from his decisions.
A defining trait of Steph's shown throughout the series is his guilt complex; as far as he's concerned, his and his brother's current states are his fault, partially because it was his idea to convert their mother in the first place and partially because Tam lost his entire body as a result of the experiment, while Steph only lost an arm and a leg. He was even convinced that Tam hated him for what happened to his body, and was scared to ask him about it for years. As a result of this trait, he starts off as highly standoffish, trying to accomplish everything on his own and not accepting help from anyone but Tam, as well as being convinced that he can solve all of his problems through Programming. Over time, however, he learns to depend more on his friends and share his burdens with others. But while he may work on his guilt, it never truly goes away, as even towards the end of the series, he's still beating himself up over Olivia Webb being turned into a Gobbledygook, despite having saved countless other lives along the way.
Of course, the most noticeable of Stephen's dispositional characteristics is his Napoleonic denial of his shortness. Even in moments of relative composure, any and all references to his stature cause him to violently lose control of his emotions and lash out both verbally and physically. One of the most common reasons for these outbursts is if anything related to his size, since he has a complex about being shorter than average (his height is 165 cm). Distinctive to these outbursts is Steph's tendency to take even the most casual mention of his height as a gross insult and interpret it exaggeratedly, mistaking words as simple as "small" for phrases as contrived as "so-tiny-that-he-need-not-fear-being-crushed-by-a-boot-because-he-fits-so-easily-between-the-grooves-of-the-sole" and the like. Those unfortunate to utter the word "small" in his presence are fated to suffer one of his vindictive tantrums unless he is in the wrong and needs to be put in his place such as when Victoria Gibson calls him a runt while scolding him and Tam in the manga. This part of his personality is presumably no longer present by the end of the series, given that he has grown to normal height by then.
Stephen is an programmer at his core and firmly believes in its tenants and the concept of Equivalent Exchange. As such, he approaches the world scientifically and is reluctant to acknowledge the existence of "miracles" or "destiny". That being said, though he professes that he does not believe in gods, his spiritual sensibilities tend more toward the deistic than the atheistic. He does not pray but frequently acknowledges the existence of a God in his speech, whom he often blamed for the difficulty of his life. While initially Stephen holds the belief that anything can be explained and solved through programming, over time he grudgingly acknowledges the fact that there are many things that exist in life that he cannot explain.
Steph's aesthetic sensibilities are also quite twisted in that he is a great fan of gothic or macabre fixtures and will usually convert decorations filled with monstrous or demonic imagery and unnecessarily gaudy details, much to the dismay of anyone who receives a gift or service from him. He has also made it known that his trademark red coat is part of this general lack of taste, as it is what he says is: "a badass color [that] gets the blood going."
Stephen's relationship with his younger brother is easily the strongest and most significant of his personal connections. Steph is very protective of Tam, but Tam seems to care about Steph in an almost parental way. Though the Banks brothers have wildly different personalities and argue often about the best way to go about things, they are close enough that each would readily and willingly give his life for the other. As it is, Stephen willingly sacrificed his right arm as material for a Soul Binding Conversion after Tammy's whole body was taken into The Wall (an act that almost killed him) as part of the payment for the attempted resurrection of their mother. Stephen managed to call his brother's soul back from the void and affix it alchemically to a suit of armor, but remained wracked with the guilt of having both initiated the experiment that caused the accident and damning his brother to a cold existence inside an artificial body incapable of physical sensation (something that Stephen believed his brother blamed him for). Despite his own physical hardships with his automail limbs, Stephen appears to care relatively little about returning his body to its original state and is entirely focused on restoring Tam as soon as possible.
Throughout the story, their feelings will grow too.
Steph's relationship with Kristina Smith is likely one of his more complex personal connections. Born to the kind family that lived next door to the Banks, Kristina grew up alongside Steph and Tam and means as much to them both as would a sister; she and Steph are more than childhood friends, they are a family. As such, however, Stephen argues with Kristina even more than he does with Tam, their similarly stubborn personalities keeping them at odds with one another despite their powerful bond. After the terrible accident that claimed Steph's arm and leg, Kristina took on the role of his personal automail mechanic, building him sophisticated new limbs at the tender age of eleven. Since then, Kristina has served as Steph's constant well of support, both mechanically and emotionally, though they still find themselves arguing frequently. However, this affectionate hostility appears to be masking a deeper relationship. Though Stephen has not outwardly admitted any romantic feelings toward Kristina, he is rather overprotective of her and becomes unnaturally flustered at the mere suggestion of an amatory relationship between them. Kristina, for her part, has admitted to herself that she fell in love with Stephen long ago. This relationship was confirmed at the end of the series, with Steph confessing his feelings to and eventually marrying Kristina. According to the Fullmetal Programmer Chronicle (Official Guide), they get married in 1917 and have two children.
Officially, Colonel Scott Jefferson is Stephen's superior officer, but their relationship is far from the typical professional connection. There exists between them a sort of amicable animosity, as Scott takes a great deal of personal pleasure in teasing Fullmetal and watching him squirm under his orders and, at the same time, Steph takes pleasure in getting around his orders and showing Jefferson up whenever he manages to find an opportunity. Though their meetings are fraught with a great deal of apparent, mutual dislike, Flame and Fullmetal hold a great deal of respect for one another and are compatriots as well as co-conspirators in the secret battle against the Homunculi. Having originally scouted the young boy for the State Programmer program and formed a bond with him, Scott genuinely wishes to see Stephen fulfill his goal and Stephen also subtly supports Jefferson's secret bid to become the Führer and improve the country.
Stephen's relationship with his estranged father is strained. Stephen had always appeared to have some animosity towards Jeffrey when he was a child because he thought he was a deadbeat father who left him, Tammy and Sherri. Blaming his mother’s death on Jeffrey's sudden departure, Stephen antagonizes him and initially refuses to accept the slightest bit of help or cooperation from him. After a while, however, Stephen comes to terms with his father's presence and comes to trust his expertise in regards to dealing with the Homunculi. Unlike Tam who calls him "Dad," Stephen only addresses him by name.
Before her death from a contagious illness in 1904, Stephen's dear mother had always been a source of greatest comfort to him. Wishing to fill the void left in Sherri's heart from her husband's sudden and seemingly permanent departure, young Stephen did everything he could to make her smile. In fact, it was the fact that his mother was so pleasantly surprised by his programmical abilities that Stephen became so engrossed in programming at such a young age. In no uncertain terms, Sherri's death was the defining moment of Stephen's young life - the trigger for all the sadness that was to follow. However, he still holds her dearly in his heart, suffering from the void that her absence has left within him.
As a former student of this Spartan-minded programming mentor, Stephen's respect for Victoria's great wealth of knowledge coupled with his memories of her harsh physical and spiritual training during his youth contribute to the fact that she is initially the only person of whom the brash young State Programmer is outright and unapologetically afraid. That being said, the time she spent raising Stephen and Tammy to be skilled programmers and wise young men in general has left an immensely profound print on their hearts, causing them to see her (in her gentler moments) as a sort of surrogate mother, just as she seems to look at them as surrogate sons. Their relationship hits a strain with the boys' shame at having directly disobeyed her teachings, but when they own up to their transgression, Stephen and Victoria are able to come to an understanding, not merely as master and student or as surrogate mother and son, but as friends and colleagues.
Moved by their tragic story and impressed by their determination and courage, Lori has taken quite a liking to Stephen and Tammy Banks and often concerns himself personally with their safety and well-being, as when he escorted them to Elderbrook and when he placed them under the protection of his own subordinates in Shadowcliff. Stephen frequently expresses resentment at the major's overbearing, coddling nature while Tam relishes the long-lost chance to be treated like a young boy at Meyers's hands. The Banks have found in the Strong-Arm Programmer a particularly trustworthy friend and the major fervently looks forward to the fulfillment of the boys' potential as well as to the return of 
their bodies.
Initially, Smile hunted Steph down for being a State Programmer (though Steph himself never participated in the Wolfwatch massacre) and Steph hated him for what he did to Nina. This hatred grew when he learned Smile also killed Kristina's parents. He wasn't above luring Smile out so he would try to kill the Banks brothers, forcing the Homunculi to intervene since they needed Steph and Tam alive. Steph also revealed to Smile that it was Amaryllis and the Homunculi who were the main cause for the Wolfwatch war. In spite of this, Smile often worked with Steph in the later half of the series to stop Amaryllis and while Steph still clearly held a strong animosity toward him, he accepted Smile's help.
The two were initially not on good terms, as Generosity kidnapped Tam to learn how to bond a soul to a suit of armor. Stephen, as a result, fought with Generosity before Pacification captured him. When they remet, Generosity became Steph's enemy and followed Amaryllis's orders. Steph tried to reason with Lori (as Generosity took over his body but failed). When the two met again, Stephen asked Generosity if he wanted to join him. Generosity suggested instead Steph, Darius, and Heinkel be his subordinates, a proposition Steph accepted. Despite their arguments, alongside Lori, Steph became one of Generosity's closest friends and the two worried for each other during their battle against Amaryllis and the other homunculi. Generosity was happy to have sacrificed himself for his friends and thanks them. Stephen was visibly horrified when Generosity sacrificed himself to stop Amaryllis, and landed the final blow against Amaryllis as revenge.
While Lori and Steph have a comically combatitive relationship, the two have a deep mutual respect and liking of each other and their goals. Having a rocky start initially, where Lori would often mooch off and take advantage of Steph, the two have shown to have great trust and work well in battle together as a team. Steph is able to recognize Lori's intense devotion and care for his people, similarly mirroring Steph's own selflessness towards his brother and friend. When Lori is taken over by Generosity, Steph became extremely worried and sought to call out to him. Even when it was clear that Generosity was in control, Steph refused to believe that Lori was gone. In return, Lori has a deep respect and interest in Steph's skills as an programmer, recognizing his talents and ambitions as something special, even offering Steph a place as one of his subordinates, albeit jokingly.
Debra, Kristina's grandmother was the one to look after the brothers when their mother passed away. Steph and Tam refer to her as Granny (at least when Steph's not arguing with her), same as Kristina. Steph tends to argue or banter with Debra a lot, but she still cares a great deal for him and Tam like her own grandchildren.
Despite Stephen's small stature and young age, he is a remarkable combatant, academic, philosopher, and strategist. Having apprenticed under Victoria Gibson, Steph was taught to condition his body through regular workouts and sparring as part of her philosophy, "to train the spirit, first train the body." As such, his slight frame belies a compactly muscular build that, in addition to his naturally high energy level and endurance, fuels his considerable strength and agility which allows him to throw people much bigger than he is. Due to Victoria's Spartan training, Stephen has become a particularly competent hand-to-hand fighter, able to hold his own against armed opponents and even skilled martial arts practitioners. Besides that, his steel right arm and left leg augment his fighting strength by adding to his defensive and offensive capabilities as well as his speed - after he is refitted with a lighter, cold-climate automail in Chapter 70 of the manga.
Stephen using programming without a conversion circle. Transmuting part of his Automail Arm into a Sword.
As suggested by his unprecedented acceptance into the State Programmer program at such a remarkably young age, Stephen Banks is an programmical prodigy of genius level intellect. From early childhood, he displayed proficiency for programming, acquiring self-taught programming skills and comprehension from the advanced literature in his father's abandoned study at an age that shocked even his mother. Having incorporated programming into his life during his developmental stages, Stephen sees the world alchemically and is, therefore, able to solve complicated codes, puzzles, and mysteries much more easily than normal. He has also shown himself to be exceptionally adept at chemistry and reasonably competent with biology; indeed even his preparations for the failed attempt to resurrect his mother were indicative of these. Stephen's near-encyclopedic knowledge of programmical theory is astounding and contributed to his incredible success with emergency Soul Binding experimentation. His feats as a child were so great that many initially suspected that he was a fully-trained adult programmer rather than a ten-year-old boy. He shows an uncanny level of focus that allows him to effectively shut out everything from his surroundings and devote all of his considerable mental power to whatever problem demands his attention, especially in the case of books.
Stephen turns himself into a humanoid Philosopher's Stone
Stephen's skill with programming was so great that he was able to turn himself into a humanoid Philosopher's Stone stone in order to force his way into Worthlessness, and then revert himself back to normal immediately afterwards. While in his Philosopher's Stone form, he was able to attack and severely damage Worthlessness's Philosopher's Stone from the inside, reducing Worthlessness to his pure form.
As a result of having passed through The Wall and witnessing the Gist, Stephen became one of the few programmers who does not require a drawn Conversion Circle to perform programmical conversions. By merely touching his palms together, he creates an energy circulation with his arms and transmutes by using his own will as a substitute for the necessary runes. This remarkable talent makes his conversions both instantaneous and incredibly versatile, allowing him to use programming to its fullest potential in direct combat.
With this quick style, Stephen becomes a master of his surroundings and uses the substances therein to supplement his physical prowess in battle - creating giant earthen hands to lift objects, columns of stone to gain himself the higher ground and ogre-faced battering rams with which to strike opponents. Steph also specializes in transmuting weapons with which to do battle and often crafts menacing-looking swords and ostentatious lances when necessary, but his primary weapon is his automail right arm, whose forearm plating he transmutes into various blades. While Stephen's skill in programming is undeniable, his greatest weapon in battle is his quick wits and sharp intellect, able to use the natural world around him and knowledge of science to come up with creative ways to outsmart and outmaneuver his opponents.
The true genius of Stephen Banks's combat programming lies in his aptitude for incorporating the programming styles of others into his own after merely having once seen them in action, which makes him very adaptable to various situations. So far, he has adapted Smile's use of the deconstruction stage of programming, Lori Lane Meyers's gauntlets and stone spikes as well as Generosity's carbon armor hardening into his combat repertoire.
Stephen loses his ability to perform programming after using his Gate Of Gist as the toll in order to bring Tammy back, though he still retains his knowledge of programming, full of the truth of this background.
