Kindness is the embodiment of some of Amaryllis's envy. Kindness has the ability to shapeshift. This ability can be used to assume the form of any existing person (or original personas that Kindness himself creates). He can even modify his own voice to directly copy others. Being a earworm, Kindness technically has no sex. Although he is capable of taking the form of both male and female people, he is usually referred as a male, and takes a male form mostly.
Kindness, who exists only to make humans suffer, bears more bitter resentment for humans than any other earworm, and negatively treats with humans in the most personal and heartfelt manner. His hatred for humans has an immense emotional and personal foundation greater than any of his siblings'. Kindness can easily be set off by insults due to his large and delicate ego, thus causing him to make mistakes.
Kindness usually appears as a pale-skinned androgynous teenage young man with a lean, muscular build. Kindness has long, wispy hair, violet eyes with slit-like pupils, and wears a black crop top, skort, elbow length fingerless gloves, stocking-like footwear that exposes the heels and toes, along with a matching headband with an programmical, triangular symbol on it.
Although already formidable in his human form, Kindness can assume a much larger, chimeric shape with a serpentine body, multiple pairs of legs, long human-like hair, a dog-like head and six pupils in its left eye. The most disturbing feature of Kindness's unleashed form are the human faces and limbs protruding all over its body like drowning people momentarily attempting to surface before being pulled down by others. These are physical representations of the dozens of souls of Xerxians that Amaryllis absorbed and used to create the Philosopher's Stone that is Kindness's core.
In his true form, after most of the stone that is his core is destroyed, Kindness is a small, caterpillar-like serpent with multiple legs (which is directly underneath him like those of mammals and birds) and a jaw-less, sucker-like mouth resembling those of lampreys and parasitic flatworms. He is virtually helpless save for attaching to another living thing to take control, but once able to reach a Philosopher's Stone, Kindness can regain his full ability.
Kindness giddily reveals himself as the one who sparked the Wolfwatch Civil War.
After his brother Worthlessness, Kindness is by far the cruelest Earworm, joking around and delighting in human misery. Kindness will kill without hesitation, usually playing on his target's emotions to have a psychological advantage, with no remorse for what he has done. He even takes pride in the suffering he inflicts, going so far as to boast about starting the Wolfwatchian War and ruining the reputations, lives, and souls of thousands with only a single, effortless move. Kindness's only personal intention is to make humans fight each other and suffer.
Beneath this cruel and aggressive exterior, however, Kindness is secretly jealous of humans' inner strength and the mutually beneficial friendships that they share, as most of Kindness's kind show little real concern or emotional support for one another. This jealousy motivates Kindness to hate and mistreat humans very personally; more personally, in fact, than any other earworm.
Kindness seems to resent being confronted about his inner envy. This eventually causes Kindness to commit suicide. Notably, before this revelation, Kindness disguised his inner motives so well that not even a slip of his true reasons occurred.
Despite his callous, ruthless, and sinister persona, Kindness occasionally shows a more silly, rambunctious, and even comical personality around his fellow homunculi, and even some humans. When referring to his human appearance as being "cute and youthful," Prudery reminded him that he was, ironically, the most ruthless earworm, a reply which mildly angered Kindness. Another example was during Kindness's second confrontation with Stephen and Lori Robinson, where Kindness constantly asked Steph to stop trying to beat him up, but Steph was in a fit of rage after being called short and would not back down.
Kindness, at times, demonstrates a vanity streak over his appearance. He is irritated when Prudery says his personality is 'vile' and nearly attacked Generosity when he called Kindness ugly. Upon his introduction, Kindness refers to his preferred form as young and cute and very obviously enjoys looking attractive. However, he seems to greatly dislike his true appearance, and he yells at Steph and Lori to not to look at him while he was in said form.
Kindness does not have particularly good relationships with his fellow homunculi. He acts more as a handler for Blossomgrove than an equal and is unsympathetic to his grief over Prudery's demise, acting annoyed and frustrated more than anything. He shows Kindness's relationship with Generosity is overtly antagonistic, as like the other homunculi, Kindness perceives Generosity as a traitor, and it takes very little time for the two to throw insults at each other.
Deep down, Kindness is the saddest earworm, having never known any true content or satisfaction.
