The Dwarf in the Flask: Earworm, referred to as "Amaryllis» by his "children", the other homunculi, is the main antagonist. He was the oldest Earworm and the progenitor of the Homunculi, creating them directly or indirectly. Arrogant and self-righteous, he deems only power over and ownership of the world, "perfect goodness and being", and "divine order" worthy of his attention, and he sought to become absolutely "superior" to the human race. One of his outward looks bears a striking resemblance to Van Jeffrey.
"Amaryllis" was created from the essence of the Eye (with some of Jeffrey's blood mixed in), and thus Amaryllis's shadowy actual form greatly resembles the Eye. "Amaryllis" inherited much knowledge from the Eye, and, when it comes to amount, only those of the Eye and Gist exceed his knowledge.
Amaryllis's original personality, when he was known as the Dwarf in the Flask, was more human-like and beautifully charismatic than when compared to his later self. He had a much more polite, charismatic, yet also somewhat sarcastic personality to him. "Full of human emotions", as Van Jeffrey notes. His later self is stated by Jeffrey to be much more stoic, composed, almost lifeless, and almost always looking bored, the reason being that he had supposedly purged himself of the seven vices, although this "purging" seems to have been incomplete, since he acts in sinful manners that reflect the seven vices.
Amaryllis is also highly intelligent, manipulative, narcissistic, callous, merciless, pitiless, egotistical, megalomaniacal, deeply selfish, and believes that everyone around him is nothing but tools to be used as part of his plans. The only exceptions to this may be his seven Homunculi "children", as Jeffrey had stated during their battle that one of the reasons he had created them was because he wanted a family of his own, hence his title of 
"Our Amaryllis", a fact that annoyed him but which he also does not deny. Despite potentially desiring this at some point, however, by the time he purged himself of all his "sins" to create his "children", he had no emotional attachment to them whatsoever.
His thirst for power seems to be the only thing more important to him other than himself, noted when he does not hesitate to abandon his Earworm "son" Worthlessness in exchange for resupplying his Philosopher's Stone or to absorb Generosity into his body to resupply it. Also, though he considers the Homunculi to be his children, he never expressed grief for any of their demises. Unlike Prudery or Kindness, Amaryllis has also stated that he feels no such hatred or contempt towards humans. He confesses to Stephen that he merely sees humans as nothing more than steppingstones for himself, explaining his outright indifference and apathy towards them. When Jeffrey asked him why he would make his "children" this way, Amaryllis revealed that the seven Homunculi were only created so he would become a perfect being.
The Homunculi's personalities vicariously reveal more about Amaryllis, since, as he tells Generosity himself, they were born out of his own vices, as well as the subconscious emotions that drove them, and everything they feel he has felt himself. This is particularly true of Generosity, Kindness and Worthlessness. Generosity's desire for possessions was really an attempt to escape the loneliness and desire for close friends he felt deep down. Kindness's grandiose hatred of humans covered up a deep-seated inferiority complex and jealousy towards humans, particularly their sense of emotional intimacy. Worthlessness's great ego and disdain of the human race covered a certain lack of self-reverence, as he was constantly looking for a way to improve himself whenever he got backed into a corner. These revelations suggest that deep down, part of what Amaryllis wanted to purge was his own unbearable loneliness and jealousy that humans had each other for social, emotional, and physical support whilst he was originally the only Earworm on Earth.
Since he couldn't be like or part of the human race, and since he felt constrained by the sickening social deprivation he suffered through, Amaryllis decided that he would strive to be better than the creatures he came from. He resolved to break free of the flask that prevented him from having physical contact with people, and once he did, he shunned all the "burdensome" feelings he previously desired (longing for experiencing intimate, physical and familial companionship with other people) as "inferior" by going for what he deemed infinitely greater (the power to chaotically abolish the physical laws imposed upon everything). However, despite him viewing this as him "improving" himself, all this really did was strip away all of Amaryllis's unique personality quirks until he was nothing but an echo of his former self, walking down a path he set out for himself, because he literally had no desire to stop.
Amaryllis's envy towards humanity is especially apparent considering the fact that, when he was free of his flask, he took the form of Jeffrey, hinting that despite his flippant attitude towards him, he was jealous that Jeffrey was allowed to have the things he wanted. This theme continued even after he purged himself of his sins, as when Jeffrey broke his fleshy container, Amaryllis chose to remain in a humanoid state, even though he could take whatever shape he wanted, and when he finally absorbed the Portal of Gist, he took the form of a young Jeffrey.
Despite Amaryllis's claims that he did not care for humanity, when he had Generosity absorbed into him, he was very happy to hear that the Banks brothers were Jeffrey's children and wondered what Jeffrey had been up to all these years. However, when Amaryllis reunited with Jeffrey, after Generosity had been expelled from him yet again, Amaryllis acted very coldly towards Jeffrey and did not speak to him throughout their confrontation until Jeffrey forced his hand. Another sign that showed Amaryllis's hidden desire for connection is, when he sacrificed Egypt, Amaryllis made Jeffrey immortal along with him as thanks for his existence. However, when he did the exact same thing to Borborygmus, Amaryllis used Jeffrey as one of his sacrifices to obtain the power of God.
Amaryllis viewed the Gist (the consciences of programmers) as a personal God, and that by absorbing this "God" he would become absolutely perfect. He also thought that, since Amaryllis considers himself perfectly good, the Gist is on his side, and that all those who got punished in for participating in Human Conversion are evidence that humans aren't worthy of having the powers of a god. Amaryllis's extremely personal interpretations of the Gist's works have a logical flaw, according to Stephen Banks, as he pointed out that Amaryllis was willing to force someone into preforming Human Conversion to pursue his goals, which contradicted his high and mighty attitude.
Although he claims to have no emotions, he actually does display them, sometimes as seemingly friendly ditziness, but also anger and great cruelty. If anything, it's more like his emotions are fairly low key, as despite his normally calm, brooding personality, he is shown to be extremely excited when his plans finally come together, showing a wicked, gleefully evil side to his personality, as he was giggling with delight as the nationwide conversion circle took effect. When outside of his human container and revealing his true form, he is often seen with a sadistic and homicidal grin.
At the end of the day, Amaryllis's desire for freedom was overshadowed by his need to be better than the people he envied, whether he realized it or not, and no matter what he did, he was never satisfied, because he was constantly doing the exact opposite of what he wanted deep down. He was so obsessed with being "perfect" that he couldn't see that he had the freedom he desired from when he was in his flask and that he wasted the immortality he bestowed upon himself hiding underneath Shadowcliff instead of exploring the world. Ultimately, Amaryllis never learned his lesson, as he tried to argue with the Gist that everything he did was necessary for his pursuit of perfection, only to be sent back to the very void of knowledge he came from, begging to know what he should've done differently.
Amaryllis's first form is a small round mass of black gas with a single eye, a wide toothy mouth, and tendril-like arms, making him resemble the Eye of Gist from inside the Wall (This might be because Amaryllis was created from the entity's essence). As "The Dwarf in the Flask", he was unable to perform programming, but his immense knowledge of it and general understanding of the world was able to inform and guide the people of Egypt. In this form he was very vulnerable and stated that he would die if he left the flask. He returns to this form after his defeat, being assimilated by the Eye of God soon after.
Due to his imitation of Jeffrey's body in Egypt, Amaryllis's second form is a container which looks identical in appearance to Jeffrey, excluding hair and skin color, hairstyle, clothing, a few additional wrinkles, and a lack of glasses. Jeffrey has referred to this form as nothing more than a human-like husk that Amaryllis uses to hide his true appearance. He is normally seen in the cavity beneath Central in which he and the Homunculi reside, sitting on a stone or cement throne with numerous pipes leading to it. The throne itself also has a physical connection to him, which can be unattached from him via pipes directly protruding from his spine. He uses the pipes to spread the Philosopher's Stone beneath the nation of Borborygmus. The purpose behind this is to act as a barrier between the tectonic energy of the earth's crust, where Borborygmusian Programming gets its energy from, so that he can stop others from using Programming at any time. Doing this, however, has aged his body slightly more than Van Jeffrey, who still looks identical from the time of Egypt. This process, however, can be countered by a "Reverse Conversion Circle", which is a concept Smile's brother had figured out by combining Veloxese Alkahestry and Borborygmusian Programming practices. Alkahestry was unaffected by Amaryllis's barrier because Alkahestry uses energy from the Earth's chi instead, which allows Smile and Lebi Weber to continue using their programming even when Amaryllis blocks Borborygmusian Programming.
Amaryllis's body is created by and contains the Philosopher's Stone that came from half of the souls of the human population of Egypt (however, he later gave parts of it to create the other Homunculi). He has also shown the ability to directly create Philosopher's Stones from his body and as well absorbing them. Due to his origins as a being from The Wall, Amaryllis had a greater degree of knowledge on programmical theory and its practice than any other being on the planet. Coupled with the almost unlimited energy from the people of Egypt, he is able to perform programming without drawing a conversion circle, clapping his hands together, or even moving at all. It is in this form that Amaryllis created his seven sin Earworm, gifting them with numerous powerful abilities such as the Ultimate Spear, Ultimate Shield Ultimate Eye and as a Earworm himself, Amaryllis would have the standard enhanced physical capabilities as his homunculi children and should be even physically superior to all of them, being their progenitor and their own Philosopher's Stones being just mere fractions of his own Philosopher's Stone. If he so wishes, he can return these Homunculi to his being by turning their Philosopher's Stone to liquid and drinking it.
Despite his immense knowledge and understanding of programming, he was neither all-knowing or all-powerful. There were certain times when he met failure with his experiments, such as the creation of Glutonny, or were surprised by properties of the Philosopher's Stone itself. His ultimate quest to attain more knowledge was proof that there was still much that even he did not know.
Amaryllis's true form revealed.
During his battle with Jeffrey, Jeffrey gains the upper hand in the battle. However, after Amaryllis casts aside his "second form" husk and reveals his true form - which has evolved to be able to exist outside of his container - an unseen battle takes place between him and Jeffrey resulting in Amaryllis's victory. In this form, Amaryllis is shown to have a strange, almost liquid-like body structure somewhat resembling his ancient flask form. He is able to use programming to reshape his own body for any situation. The most common shape he took was that of a slightly obese humanoid with eyes with red irises adorning his black body and a wide grin on his otherwise nonexistent face.
Amaryllis takes on a form identical to Worthlessness
While in this form, Amaryllis can take on a form identical to his son Worthlessness's, though without the need for a container. Unlike the solid shadows Worthlessness is made of, Amaryllis is more liquid state, or mushy; Generosity attempted to bash him, but Amaryllis turned into a puddle and simply reformed further away.
Amaryllis takes on a giant form
When Amaryllis absorbs around fifty-million souls from the people of Borborygmus, this form changes to become a giant cyclopean being. Though Amaryllis previously cryptically implied that this was his true form all along (though previously much smaller, only encapsulating Amaryllis's room) to discourage his sacrifices from escaping. This form is much thinner, showing what looks like a rib cage, a more muscular body, the multitude of eyes and wide grins that were on his previous form are gone, and he now has one large, bulging eye on his forehead.
Amaryllis's fourth form, containing a "miniature sun within his hand".
Amaryllis's fourth form looks much like a younger version of Jeffrey. Also, despite looking so young, he keeps the voice of his second form. Due to the sacrifices, Amaryllis managed to absorb the entity beyond the gate and now has the "power of God" within him with the Borborygmusian souls he absorbed keeping it in check, making him the "perfect being". He can now almost completely defy natural order (or, in Amaryllis's words, "do anything"). He is shown to perform feats far beyond any other programmer in the series, able to manipulate the weather, enact multiple complex conversions simultaneously, and create any force at any magnitude.
He retains his fourth form and the powers that go with it even after having lost the Amestrians' souls, but as he lacks the strength to keep "God" inside his new body, the new power is too much of a strain on him, and as of chapter 107, it renders him vulnerable to a counterattack. Reflecting this, Amaryllis's appearance deteriorates as the fight goes on: his skin and hair losing their color, pronounced veins appearing across his body, and eventually his face losing almost all human resemblance. He initially has a sort of "force field" that can protect him without any movement on his part, but he is eventually unable to maintain it after losing too much control.
Chapter 106 also revealed that Amaryllis now has the ability to create bodies for the souls inside his Philosopher's Stone. In the manga, these beings are not well-made however, and start to fall apart moments after they were created. Amaryllis used this ability to distract his enemies so he could unleash a devastating attack.
However, Amaryllis's desire to become God made his powers somewhat of a double edge sword. After having all of his Borborygmusian souls revoked, Amaryllis couldn't activate his invisible shield and use his absorption powers at the same time. What's more, he was so dedicated to his programming-based combat style that, once he was reduced a state where he couldn't use his programming without losing the "power of God" he had obtained, he virtually had no hand-to-hand combat skills.
In what proves to be his downfall, Amaryllis re-absorbs Generosity while in this form - gaining the Ultimate Shield ability, which Generosity promptly uses to turn Amaryllis's body to graphite, allowing Stephen to easily defeat him.
While it is never fully explored, the being that would later call itself Amaryllis was originally a part of the existence within the Wall. Using the blood of his slave Number 23, the Programmer to the King of Egypt managed to contain a small portion of the knowledge and life of the Wall within a flask, capable of existing in the physical realm. Named simply "Dwarf in the Flask" or "Earworm" by the people of Egypt, this sentient creature contained a vast amount of knowledge, the most important and influential being the skills that would become standard programming.
The Dwarf in the Flask was unable to perform any programming of his own. Furthermore, though the flask was the only thing that keeps him alive, Earworm desired to exist outside it. To that end, he befriended Slave 23 out of similar circumstances as slaves to their respective plights, in turn naming the lad Van Jeffrey and educating him to win his freedom as an act of thanks for his hand in creating him.
However, Earworm grew envious of the human race, jealous of their mutual emotional support for each other whilst he grew lonely, being only one of his kind. Losing sight of his own unique, supreme, and special gifts and talents, Earworm lost much of his self-confidence, and this low self-esteem caused him to fill himself up with hubris and a desire to become a being superior to even God himself.
Years later, the King of Egypt (who, like Amaryllis, has become vain and hubristic) finally revealed the use for Earworm; he wanted to call upon him to give the secrets of immortality. Earworm used this opportunity and instructed the king to construct a giant conversion circle out of the kingdom, creating bloodshed at specific nodes of the circle. He then manipulated the event so he and Jeffrey were standing at the true center of the circle, so once it was activated, every soul in Egypt besides himself and Jeffrey were sacrificed to make what was possibly the first Philosopher's Stone ever created.
Earworm used this power to open the Wall of Gist and created new, immortal bodies for himself and Jeffrey, living embodiments of the Philosopher's Stone with the hundreds of thousands of souls of Egypt people split between them as their power. Horrified at his role as an unwilling partner in this horrific act, Jeffrey parted ways with Earworm.
Borborygmusian programming's source of power.
After the destruction of Egypt, Earworm made his way to find another inhabited place. Finding such a patch of land, he took the small group of people thriving there and taught them programming, becoming known as the "Philosopher of the East". However, to ensure his teachings would not be used against him, he placed himself under what would become Central Command and used himself as a buffer against tectonic energy so programmers would actually use energy derived from the souls of Egypt contained within himself. At some point, he began using those same souls to create his Homunculi offspring and accordingly started going by the name "Amaryllis".
From this point, the people formed the powerful military state of Borborygmus, a puppet government secretly run by Amaryllis. Borborygmus begins to rise in power and annexes all nearby land, eventually branching out to form yet another giant conversion circle, with all skirmishes and bloodshed involving the Borborygmusian military taking place at the important nodes of the circle. While Amaryllis's scheme was to repeat his actions at Egypt to create another Philosopher's Stone, he now requires an eclipse to become a "perfect being", ("the sun symbolizes a man, and the moon symbolizes a woman, when they come together they become a perfect being" -Stephen Banks) and five programmers that had opened the Wall as human sacrifices.
Throughout the first half of the story, Amaryllis is mostly seen sitting on a stone throne with many pipes leading into it. He is properly introduced when Pacification captures Generosity and brings him to Amaryllis's underground lair. After his offer to the Earworm was turned down, Amaryllis had Generosity boiled in a tub of liquid which decomposes his body into his core Philosopher's Stone. The Stone, now in a liquid state and containing Generosity's soul, is then consumed by Amaryllis.
Amaryllis's full identity is revealed when Blossomgrove brings Tammy into the Homunculi's lair, prior to Blossomgrove's body tearing apart as Kindness, Stephen and Lori Robinson emerge from Blossomgrove's stomach. When the Banks recognize his face, Amaryllis admits his amazement that Stephen and Tammy are Jeffrey's children, before healing Stephen's wounds and restoring Tammy's missing arm. Having no use for Lori, however, Amaryllis orders Blossomgrove and Kindness to kill him. Stephen pleads for him to spare Lori, but Amaryllis makes it clear that he does not care for anyone not a part of his plan. Stephen and Tammy use their programming to attack Amaryllis, with no avail; Amaryllis is entirely unharmed by their attacks before he merely stomps his foot to seal off all programming in Central.
However, entering Amaryllis's lair at the same moment, Smile and Lebi Weber astonish Amaryllis with their own counterattacks, unaffected by his alchemic lock-out with their own unique forms of programming. However, even point-blank, Smile's programming is unable to harm Amaryllis. Smile and Lebi are overwhelmed while Kindness captures the Banks. Meanwhile, Amaryllis too easily defeats Lori and then takes the liquefied stone, in which Generosity is contained, and merges it with Lori, stating that he could have use for another pawn after all. Lori then becomes the new Generosity and Amaryllis has the Banks taken to the surface before tending to the injured Blossomgrove. From there on, Amaryllis is mostly seen sitting on his throne, musing over his plan and conversing with the military high command.
Amaryllis prepares to swallow "God".
When the Promised Day begins, Stephen, Jeffrey, Smile, Lan Fan and the Gobbledygook invaded his lair with plans to kill him for good by destroying his shell. However, only Jeffrey manages to reach him as the two do battle. But when it seems Amaryllis has won when he manages to stab Jeffrey, he learns all too late that Jeffrey managed to work with the souls within his Philosopher's Stone, some of which destroy his shell from the inside. Unfortunately, Amaryllis reveals to Jeffrey how far he has evolved since they parted ways, emerging from his shell and eating it with the Philosopher's Stones it still contained, before restarting the fight. He defeats Jeffrey, restraining him with his body and later greets Victoria and the Banks brothers, who didn't recognize him at first. Soon after, Worthlessness arrives with a blinded Colonel Jefferson, giving Amaryllis his fifth and final human sacrifice.
Despite the programmers' refusal to aid him, and Generosity's attempt on his life, Amaryllis defeats his attackers and proceeds to finally activate the Nationwide Conversion Circle around Borborygmus, using the restrained sacrifices' gates to access the Earth's gate while absorbing all of the Amestrians' souls. From there, in his full form, Amaryllis tears open the Wall of Gist with his bare hands; absorbing the higher power he calls "God". Once the conversion process is completed, in a new youthful body, Amaryllis states to the programmers how he "imprisoned God" within his body and possesses all the knowledge and power of "God". No longer needing sacrifices, Amaryllis cancels Programming once more and prepares to dispose of the five sacrifices, as well as Generosity and Lebi, at his whim by creating a miniature sun in the palm of his hand.
However, Jeffrey reveals his own plan: all the Xersesians souls that Jeffrey separated from his body and merged with the earth itself, using the moon's shadow as a circle, force Amaryllis to release the Borborygmusian souls and guide them back to their own bodies. Without the Borborygmusian souls, Amaryllis begins to lose control of "God" and his body becomes riddled with pronounced veins due to the strain. Furious, Amaryllis claims that he can always create another Philosopher's Stone using a hundred million or even a billion lives, because there are always more humans that he can draw energy from and he attacks the group with formidable blasts of explosions, that Jeffrey manages to block. Not letting up, Amaryllis launches a wave of energy at his human foes, but Lebi transmutes an alkahestric barrier around them all, declaring that her craft's specialty is harnessing the flow of energy within the earth and that, the more energy is thrown at her, the more she is able to use. However, when Amaryllis fires another volley, Jeffrey moves quickly to block it with his hands, which burn and crumble as it becomes apparent that he hasn't the energy necessary to compete with Amaryllis. As he begins to fall back, Steph and Tam rush to his aid, holding him up so that he might keep up the fight and their grateful father redoubles his efforts, straining his Philosopher's Stone. Luckily, Smile activates the Alkahestric reverse-Nationwide Conversion Circle, which nullifies Amaryllis's "buffer" and grants true programming to Amestrians. Steph, Tam and Victoria continue their assault on Amaryllis and Jeffrey explains that they can win if they can force the Earworm to use up all the energy of his Philosopher's Stone. Generosity emerges from the shadows to help the fight, but Amaryllis merely deflects all of their attacks and ascends toward the surface. Knowing that fighting the programmers would only further weaken his ability to contain "God" within him, Amaryllis takes to the surface of Central Command to claim the souls of the nearby Nebulon soldiers and replenish his stone, but an attack from Jeffrey makes him lose concentration.
Now surrounded by Jeffrey, Victoria, Tammy, and Lebi, Amaryllis is asked by Jeffrey the reason why he hates humans by pointing out his origins and the reason that the Homunculi exist is because of Philosopher Stones, which are made from human souls. Jeffrey asserts that Amaryllis is only capable of destruction and his evolution has reached a dead end. Amaryllis replies that he can create and proves Jeffrey wrong by resurrecting the Egyptians with his body. As the programmers recoil in horror as the Egyptians wander about, grateful to have returned to the world of the living, Stephen finally makes his way to the surface. Seeing him, Amaryllis grins and releases another energy blast which wipes out both the recreated Egyptians and most of Central Command. However, Tam and Jeffrey managed to shield everyone at great expanse to their physical beings. Steph looks at the scorched body of his father and calls out to him, but as Jeffrey opens his eyes, Amaryllis appears behind him and swats him aside. Deciding on Victoria and Stephen as his first targets, Amaryllis attempts to draw out their souls into a Philosopher's Stone, but is interrupted when the military joins the fray with the blind Jefferson, along with Lt. Jennifer Spencer supporting him, and Major Lori Lane Meyers spearheading the attack.
The Nebulon soldiers, pouring out from Central Command, open fire on him with rifles, rockets and machine guns, giving the programmers time to get to safety. Amaryllis merely shrugs these attacks off, shielding himself with an impenetrable barrier of programmical energy, but the soldiers are ordered to stand clear as a deluge of flame washes over their inhuman foe; though Amaryllis is unharmed by the attack, Colonel Jefferson, Major Meyers and Lieutenant Spencer have appeared on the scene. Spencer informs the blind Flame Programmer that his aim was off and gives him targeting directions for his next massive salvo. As he claps his hands together to compensate for the damage done to his Flame Programming gloves, Scott remarks that he hasn't yet gotten the hang of circle-free conversion and attacks Amaryllis with flames again, but Amaryllis simply absorbs the flames and reflects them back at Jefferson. With a warning from Spencer, Jefferson rapidly transmutes a wall to defend against Amaryllis's counterattack and finds the clapping to be useful. Unfortunately, even with everyone working together, Amaryllis remains unharmed and declares that the humans are incapable of penetrating his defenses. Suddenly, Generosity bursts from the cloud of dust and gun smoke and delivers a punch right to his father's face, exclaiming that a Earworm might succeed where humans have failed, but as Amaryllis takes hold of Generosity's hand, he thanks his son for delivering a complete Philosopher's Stone to him when he needed it most and begins draining Philosopher's Stone energy from his body. However, Generosity counters that he knew Amaryllis would drop his guard in order to absorb a Stone and explains that his own plan is to drain god energy instead. Generosity begins draining energy from his father's body, but the Earworm leader's pull is too strong and he reverses the flow. Seeing their comrade in danger, Stephen, Lori and Victoria rush to Generosity's aid, throwing a volley of physical attacks. Overwhelmed by the multiple onslaught, Amaryllis pushes them all back with a wave of energy, shattering Stephen's automail arm in the process, but the programmers remain unfazed and commence a second wave. But when Amaryllis blocks a kick from Stephen with his arm instead of energy, Jeffrey realizes that the Earworm is at his breaking point and can barely keep God contained within his body. Bulging and writing in agony as God's eye rises from his gullet and into his mouth, threatening to escape, Amaryllis topples to the ground and releases a huge burst of energy which throws everyone from his body.
Just managing to keep God within his form, Amaryllis searches desperately for a soul to make into a Philosopher's Stone and sees the nearby Stephen sprawled on a pile of broken concrete and desperately moves to take Fullmetal's soul to replenish his stone supply. Steph, seeing the danger as Amaryllis approaches him, attempts to scurry to safety, but finds that his left arm has been impaled on some twisted rebar jutting out of the rubble, pinning him to the spot. Steph, however, is saved by Tam, who uses Lebi's help to sacrifice himself in exchange for the return of Steph's original right arm. A distraught Stephen calls Tammy an idiot before releasing himself from his pinned state and beginning a furious barrage of attacks against Amaryllis, greatly depleting Amaryllis's stone.
A confrontation between two individuals born from the same man.
On the verge of defeat, Amaryllis reels in shock at being bested by a mere human. Another stunning blow from Steph knocks the Earworm down for the count, but when the god energy makes another attempt to escape, Amaryllis sucks it up, rises to his feet and lunges desperately at Generosity to take his Philosopher's Stone from Lori's body. As he plunges his arm inside his son's stomach and begins draining his Stone away, Lori's consciousness grabs hold of Generosity inside their shared body, refusing to let him go, but as Generosity states, Amaryllis's pull is stronger and any continued struggle will only result in Lori's soul being pulled into Amaryllis as well. When Lori asserts that he needs Generosity's power in order to become Emperor of Velox, Generosity claims to accept partnering with the prince for the throne, but knocks him away at the last second, resigning himself to his father's summons. As the avaricious Earworm declares that this was the only lie he has ever told, he informs Lori that he can still become emperor, as Lan Fan holds the Philosopher's Stone that she took from Pacification's pocket. Drawing out his son's Stone, Amaryllis's arm turns slowly gray as he absorbs Generosity's carbon armor ability, but with his last moments in the prince's body, Generosity summons Lan Fan to his side and she slices off Amaryllis's arm with a simple swipe of her kunai. Lori collapses to the ground, restored to complete humanity as the Ouroboros on his hand fades away, while Amaryllis howls piteously at his own son's treachery. Though his entire body slowly morphs to carbon via Generosity's power, the avaricious Earworm explains from inside that he has used his armor ability to transform Amaryllis's anatomy to one comprised of the weakest, most fragile form of carbon imaginable and his entire being begins to crumble under its own weight. Enraged that his own son would rebel against him to the end, Amaryllis destroys Generosity's soul. However, ensuring Generosity's death was not in vain, Stephen uses this opportunity to punch a hole through Amaryllis's chest, through which the remaining Egyptian Souls of his Philosopher's Stone escape. With no power or souls left to contain "God" or to sustain his physical existence, Amaryllis is horrified as "God" emerges from his body and grabs him. Amaryllis laments the harshness of reality, crying out that he does not understand why reality does not permit him to get his greatest desires, and why freedom seems so impossible to achieve; soon his body disintegrates.
The Dwarf in the Flask is finally banished to whence he came.
Amaryllis, now in his original form, appears before the Wall and asks God why he was not accepted as its vessel, and gets a reply: "It's because you did not believe in yourself." When Amaryllis searches for the origin of the voice, encountering the Gist, yet unaware of Gist's identity as it berates Amaryllis for trying to take the power of someone greater than him. Amaryllis claims that he wanted all the knowledge in the world and that he wanted to know what God knew. He then goes on to ask what was wrong with wanting, wishing and chasing your desires, showing the humanity he tried to purge himself of. Gist mocks him, saying that taking the power of God didn't make him God, but rather a cunning thief. Demanding to know who he is speaking to, Amaryllis is horrified when Gist formally introduces itself and states itself as the Gist as he defines it: giving despair to discourage one from becoming boastful and proud. Gist tells Amaryllis that he'll receive his most fitting despair as the Gates open up and hands appear to grab Amaryllis. Amaryllis begins crying as he desperately asks what he did wrong to deserve this and where he went wrong, showing the flaws he tried to purge himself of. Ultimately, stripped of the freedom he cherished, Amaryllis is sucked into the Wall and once again becomes part of the endless abyss within.
Amaryllis's relationship with his so-called "children" was relatively cold and uncaring. He never showed any form of affection or real emotion to any of them, only addressing them in his calm, if not bored, tone. As their creator, he expected undying loyalty from the Homunculi and did not hesitate to melt the first Generosity (though he did ask to rejoin him) into a Philosopher's Stone as punishment for betraying him. Even though the Homunculi were on a whole completely obedient and loyal to him, he did not have much particular allegience to them in return. When Worthlessness was vulnerable from weakening his own Philosopher's Stone, Amaryllis paid him little mind and chose to abandon him. Still, Jeffrey noted that Amaryllis at the very least attempted to have a sort of familial connection with the Homunculi, as he had them call him their father and he even referred to them as his children.
Amaryllis and Jeffrey initially had a very friendly relationship. Amaryllis served as a partner, mentor, friend to Jeffrey and was instrumental in raising him up from his status as a slave. Amaryllis claimed he did so in thanks due to being born of Jeffrey's blood, which he gave the additional gift of Jeffrey's name and immortality. After the events of Egypt however, the two would become bitter enemies, with Jeffrey dedicating his life to stopping Amaryllis's plans and Amaryllis in return regarding Jeffrey as little more than another human sacrifice and another source of Philosopher Stones. While Amaryllis treated his former partner with contempt and relative disinterest, Jeffrey's feelings were more akin to pity, claiming that Amaryllis's desire to be a perfect being hid his true desire to be more like humans.
Amaryllis makes a brief cameo in episode 2, when Stephen is reading a book about the Philosopher's Stone.
