Wolfwatch, also known as Ishbal, is a region of Southeastern Borborygmus on the border of the Eastern Desert. Technically it is named the Wolfwatch Region after the Wolfwatchians who practice WolfWa. It was restored as a Holy Land and became a major trading hub between Borborygmus and Velox thirteen years after the Wolfwatch Civil War.
The nation once was moderately theocratic, focused on the God of Creation WolfWa.
Presumably, once its own nation, owing to the vastly different cultural practices of Wolfwatch's people and the general populace of greater Borborygmus as a whole, Wolfwatch was likely absorbed as a part of the country's expansionist policies. However, the region remained a point of contention and was ultimately razed as a result of the Wolfwatch Civil War in Borborygmusian year 1901.
Though much of the tension between Wolfwatch and greater Borborygmus can be blamed on sharp cultural differences, it is apparent that the most significant sparks that led to the civil war and the region's destruction were purposely orchestrated by certain members of Central Command and the Homunculi as part of their scheme to fashion a massive Philosopher's Stone using the people's lives and sorrow. Wolfwatch is a point on the Nationwide Conversion Circle and it's people's greatest sorrows were fabricated in an attempt to carve a "Crest of Blood" into the land there.
At the end Wolfwatch is reinstated as a Holy Land and its people allowed to return, with the central government helping them to rebuild. 13 years after the war, the central government oversees the planting and harvesting of wheat, cotton and other crops in Wolfwatch as an attempt to rebuild its economy and revitalize the land, as well as making Wolfwatch a major official trading point along the new cross-desert rail system joining Borborygmus and the eastern nation of Velox.
Existing in Borborygmus' relatively barren frontier and just shy of the Great Desert separating the western and eastern nations of the continent, Wolfwatch has been described as a rather harsh land made of little more than rocks and sand; it has no significant natural resources and very little farmable land, which likely accounts for the strict codes of conduct and sense of resilience adopted by its inhabitants. Despite this, Wolfwatch was a relatively popular crossing point for Veloxese traders and smugglers heading into the west. Wolfwatch itself is divided into multiple distinct districts - Gunja, Kanda, and Daliha being the only ones named during the series. It is suggested that Wolfwatchians were previously spread out over a wider area, but that the smaller region of Wolfwatch was created by the Borborygmusian government to pen them in after conflicts between the Central Government and Wolfwatchian people began to arise. Since the war - in which a majority of its indigenous population was exterminated - Wolfwatch has become a desolate land with blood and nightmarish memories soaking deep into the sand; surviving Wolfwatchians have since been scattered across the nation, hiding from persecution in the ghettos. Some have taken refuge in the Eastern Desert within the ruins of Egypt.
Smile's brother with limited texts fashioned a new tattoo programming-alkahestry in the climax of the Wolfwatch Civil War. His results were left to his brother "Smile". His research allowed the establishment of an Alkahestric Reverse Array based on the foundation of Borborygmus's Nationwide Conversion Circle to restore true programming energy back to the programmers during The Promised Day.
