One of the Programmical Laboratories that operated within the influence and city limits of Shadowcliff, Lab 5 was located on the outskirts of town. Though Laboratory 5 was said to have shut down, the Banks Brothers' investigation reveals that the building's gate was guarded by an armed soldier at all times, the high wall surrounding it was set with razor wire, and alarmed booby traps and that the interior is kept lit just enough to accommodate passage through the facilities. Additionally, Lab 5's heinous secrets were guarded by the Slicer Brothers on the inside and Barry the Chopper on the outside. The building was also rigged with explosives, so it could be detonated at any time.
It was located next to Central Prison, from which Philosopher's Stone "ingredients" were taken from among the death row inmates. After Stephen makes it into the heart of Lab 5 and encounters the Slicer Brothers and Prudery and Kindness, the building's explosives are activated, destroying all evidence of the immoral experimentation that had gone on within. It is later revealed that all the scientists involved with Laboratory 5 had disappeared mysteriously just days before its destruction, and implied that the they had been used as ingredients for a Philosopher's Stone themselves. Laboratory 5 was also said to have been under the jurisdiction of Brigadier General Basque Grand, who had already been murdered by Smile by the time the Banks discovered it.
The truth as to Lab 5's nature is later revealed to be far more sinister than even a human testing laboratory. Lab 5, along with the other four programmical labs in the city, form the corners of a large pentagon that surrounds the city centre. Additionally, they are on the perimeter of a large circle that encompasses the pentagon, and is the inner layer of the Nationwide Conversion Circle created by Amaryllis. In addition to being part of the Nationwide Conversion Circle designed to condense all the souls in Borborygmus into a giant Philosopher's Stone, the circle within Central has another purpose. When activated, all programmers within its perimeter who have attempted human conversion are taken apart, brought to the Wall, and then brought before Amaryllis deep underground in order to become human sacrifices for the Promised Day. However, transporting the sacrifices unharmed requires additional human material and energy (in this case, the rejected Fuhrer Candidates), just like Stephen's attempt to convert himself out of Blossomgrove's required the energy of Kindness's Philosopher's Stone.
