Prudery is the embodiment of Amaryllis's lust. She was usually partnered with Blossomgrove, to whom she appears to have a particular (almost motherly) closeness, or with Kindness.
Prudery is a fairly tall, pale-skinned woman with wavy black hair that falls down to her lower back. Her eyes are mauve, although they appear red as well in some lightings. Her build is slender yet voluptuous, with a thin waist and large breasts. Her Ouroboros mark is located on her sternum. Her fingernails can extend to become sharp and claw-like; Prudery uses this as her primary weapon.
She is usually seen wearing a form-fitting, strapless black dress with a low-cut bodice. The dress reveals much of her upper body and is quite long, falling down to approximately ankle-length. She wears black, heeled boots and long black gloves accentuated with red. Her standard outfit is a part of her body, shown when her clothes regenerate along with her flesh each time she sustains damage. When in close proximity to humans, she is sometimes depicted wearing a fur coat to better conceal her true identity.
Prudery is also seen in her "Solaris" persona, in which she seduces Susan Hill in hopes of gathering information on Colonel Jefferson's plans. As Solaris, Prudery wears a dark purple dress, more modest than her usual outfit. The dress has a high neckline and a mandarin collar, and appears to have diagonal front openings as well, both characteristics reminiscent of the real world cheongsam, a garment worn by women in the late 20th century in various parts of East and Southeast Asia. It is long sleeved as well, in place of or hiding her usual black gloves.
—Prudery about her Philosopher's Stone
Prudery is the embodiment of bloodlust more so than the commonly accepted definition of lust involving sexual desire. Notably more sadistic than her siblings, Prudery displays distinct pleasure in torturing her opponents and making them suffer, such as during her fight with Scott Jefferson and Susan Hill in Research Laboratory 3.Her death was fitting violent as well; Prudery is eventually burnt to death by Jefferson in the Third Laboratory,
She was rather intelligent, heading plots with the other homunculi in Amaryllis's absence. Prudery appears to be patient as well, seen when she reprimanded Kindness for causing the Pamela Yates incident.  She is well aware of her charm and uses it often to manipulate people to her advantage. She is calm, calculating, and shows disregard for human life—a trait she shares with many of her earworm siblings.
She was seemingly the most personable of the Homunculi, holding positive relationships with those she was seen interacting with. Loyal to Amaryllis, motherly towards Blossomgrove, seemed to have a good relationship with Kindness, being someone he actually chooses to spend time around, disliked Generosity but was implied to have had a friendlier relation prior to his rebellion, and Pacification seemed ready to fight potential candidates to aid her. It's unknown how she was with Worthlessness and Activeness, though it's shown the Homunculi had a significantly harder time working together after her death.
Prudery also had a great disdain for humans, thinking them frail, predictable, and generally foolish. Moreover, she would often comment on the ridiculousness of human nature. As such she felt no remorse over manipulating or killing, gleefully watching the village of Ashenfield fall into chaos and civil war.[2] While she makes her disdain for humans known, Prudery spends her last moments stating her appreciation for being killed by Jefferson, praising him for his craftiness, determination, and thirst for violence. At the same time, she wishes for his eyes to be "clouded with agony" in the future, almost prophetically, as her final act of vengeance, demonstrating her cruel streak to the end.[1]
