Joseph Jackson was an Borborygmusian State Military officer stationed in the Investigations Office in Shadowcliff. He was Scott Jefferson's best friend, as well as the closest supporter of Jefferson's secret bid for the position of Führer. A devoted family man and exemplary soldier, Jackson was generally well-liked by the other characters (unless he was pushing his overwhelming love of his wife or daughter on them). His eventual murder serves as an important plot point, being a driving motivator for Jefferson. After his death, Jackson was promoted two ranks, making him Brigadier General.
Tall and lean, Joseph Jackson offsets his sharp military uniform with a thin chinstrap of scruffy beard and his jovially spiky hair ending in a characteristic forelock as well as the rectangular spectacles framed in front of his hazel eyes.
For the most part, Joseph' personality is decidedly amicable and cheerful, even to the point of being considered annoying by his closest acquaintances. He nearly always appears randomly, jovially butting in while something important is being discussed, and is rather well known in Central for shirking his many duties just to have a chat with friends, even while griping gleefully about how much his paperwork is piling up. Jackson is also a rather forcefully hospitable person, never taking "no" for an answer when offering a position under his authority or a night's stay in his house and even going so far as to physically drag people behind him without waiting for their consent - prompting the Banks brothers to call him a "kidnapper" on more than one occasion.
Of course, his biggest and most noticeable character trait is the idolatrous infatuation he has with his wife Kayla Jackson and his three-year-old daughter Alicia Jackson. Never without one or more pictures of them on hand, Joseph makes quite a nuisance of himself by bragging about them to peers and friends and offering up glances of their photographs as either a motivational tool or as reward for a service well rendered. As such, he is constantly advising his friends Scott Jefferson and Stephen Banks to hurry into marriage themselves, much to Scott's annoyance and Stephen's embarrassment.
Behind this behavior, however, is a markedly trustworthy, serious and particularly intelligent military officer who always goes the distance to look after the people close to him. As a soldier involved with investigations and court-martials as well as a veteran of the Wolfwatch Civil War, part of Jackson' buoyant demeanor may actually be a shield to protect himself and his loved ones from the darker aspect of his profession. He is a realist, decisive and shrewd, who is able to cut out what is unnecessary and focus on the most important aspects of a given situation. With his great eye for detail, Jackson is often the first to notice unfavorable patterns in a given situation and can plan accordingly, often calling for a strategic retreat or a change in tactics moments before anyone else realizes it is necessary. He is calm and analytical, not even flinching when a situation calls for him to deal with dead bodies or even deal out death himself, and he acts sharply even in high-pressure conditions. As a realist, he also understands and accepts that some situations cannot be rectified cleanly or honestly. Even so, he retains a soft spot for idealists like Scott and is prepared to burden as much of the darkness as it takes to ensure that idealists can shape the world into a better place.
Joseph, despite all his goofball antics, is a rather wise man for his age and is prone to doling out sagely advice to the people he has invited into his extended family, including Scott, the Banks and even Kristina Smith, in order to make sure they take the correct path to the happy future.
Kayla Jackson - Joseph and his beloved wife seem to have a good relationship, shown by the fact that she is hardly annoyed with his tendencies. He is shown to be, though to a much-reduced extent than with his daughter Alicia Jackson, a bit obsessed with his wife. His love for her is shown when Kindness takes her form right before killing him as Joseph hesitates to attack despite knowing that his opponent was a shapeshifter.
Alicia Jackson - Joseph loves his daughter immensely often showing off pictures of her to everyone he meets. He usually is berated for talking about his daughter so often, to the point that Scott asked Joseph if it was possible to incinerate someone through a phone line as an annoyed joke. After Joseph' death, Alicia seems to have trouble accepting (or really realizing considering her age) his death, showing just how close he was to his daughter.
Scott Jefferson - Close friends since their shared days at the military academy, Jackson is very supportive of Jefferson's secret bid for the position of Führer, promising to work below his friend in order to push him to the top. As such, Scott frequently receives advice and secret communiqués from Shadowcliff via Joseph' phone calls or unannounced visits. Aware of the difficulty of Scott's position and as an active deterrent against the Flame Programmer's often gloomy disposition, Joseph spends a great deal of their time in communication speaking happily of his family life and advising his friend to settle down soon himself. Although Scott often receives Jackson with disdain and annoyance, when Joseph is mysteriously murdered, Scott is overcome with grief and rage to the point that he becomes doggedly obsessed with hunting down his friend’s killer.
Stephen Banks and Tammy Banks - Jackson is especially kind to the Banks brothers throughout the series. Both he and his wife Kayla Jackson continue to be kind towards the brothers, as well as to their friend Kristina Smith. Jackson also seems to be Stephen's most trustworthy ally in the military as Jackson manages to convince Stephen to describe to him what he saw while in Laboratory 5 and also occasionally supplies them with useful information. Major Lori Lane Meyers also seems to have a similar role like this to the Banks brothers. When the two brothers learn of Jackson' death, Stephen instinctively holds Scott Jefferson responsible for the death, although he drops this accusation as time passes. Stephen also blamed himself for being partly responsible as he was the one who led Jackson into that investigation in the first place. Tammy is also affected, but since he was in his armor form at the time, it is hard to see him expressing emotions physically.
Kristina Smith - Accepting her as a surrogate member of his family unit, Joseph rather enjoys Kristina's company and her youthful spirit. Respecting her position as the Banks brothers' source of comfort and support, he is more than willing to offer her advice on how to deal with their stubbornness. Seeing the fondness both Kristina and Stephen Banks have for each other, Jackson has told Steph "She'll make you a fine wife one day" much to Steph's embarrassment.
Becky - Taking her on as his subordinate, Lt. Colonel Jackson takes an unreasonable deal of pleasure in teasing the timid Becky and putting her remarkable memory and intelligence to work in his office, earning him the distinction among others as a bit of a sadistic slavedriver. His doing so, however, is well-intended and good-natured and he pays her quite well. In the 2003 anime, Becky also became invested in solving the mystery of Jackson' death, playing a key role in discovering the crucial information Jackson uncovered before his death, regarding the Führer's secretary Juliet Douglas.
Receptionist - In the Manga and 2009 anime, the receptionist is the front desk worker for Shadowcliff's State Military headquarters. She is very familiar with Joseph as he frequently uses the telephones by her desk to make calls (especially to Scott Jefferson), something she criticises him for due to often loudly "bragging" about his family. In the manga, his behaviour seems to genuinely annoy her, but in the 2009 anime she is depicted as being more amused than anything, her criticisms instead portrayed as lighthearted teasing. Also in both the manga and 2009 anime, the receptionist is the last person to see Jackson alive. In both versions she is very concerned at seeing him injured, and is later seen crying over his death when questioned by Jefferson. In the 2003 anime, the receptionist was reduced to a single cameo, with most of her role in the story being given to Becky instead.
Jackson was an intelligent and analytical man, a skill that Central was well-aware of, placing him into the Investigations Division. He possessed very good deductive reasoning skills, as within mere days of investigation he was able to decipher much of the conspiracy behind the ongoing conflicts. This was especially impressive as it took the Banks Brothers, considered to be programmical geniuses, months longer to discover this secret with far more information (though they were somewhat preoccupied at the time).
While he is more involved with police work than any violent confrontations, nonetheless he was a veteran of war and was still very skilled in combat situations, particularly in the usage of push knives. He always carried multiple on his person, concealing them until needed and was lethal in their usage. In addition, he had incredible willpower and pain tolerance, as even after being stabbed was able to escape his pursuers and almost convey his message without medical treatment.
