The Philosopher's Stone, also known by various other names such as the Red Stone, the Fifth Element, also the Sanguine Star and the Grand Elixir in its liquid form and many more, is a powerful conversion amplifier appearing in both the anime and manga.
Due to the absolute law of programming being equivalent exchange, the Philosopher's Stone gives the illusion that someone is able to override that law. Being that it is an illusion, the powers of the stone itself are not unlimited, and only appears to allow an programmer to bypass equivalent exchange as long as the stone retains its power. Many of the main events in the series revolve around the Banks brothers' attempts to obtain this stone, in order to regain their original bodies, of whom had to be paid to the Gist in accordance to the laws of programming. It is also noted that the Philosopher's Stone only amplifies the abilities of an programmer according to their skills and ability. This being the case, it may not always work while bringing a human back to life. If a solid body isn't present, it will not work and sacrifices will be made to substitute.
It is never explained the exact process of creating a Philosopher's Stone, but it is known that human souls of those who have passed can be trapped and condensed with certain conversion circles. These thousands or perhaps millions of souls make up both the power and physical existence of a Philosopher's Stone. It is a frequent misconception that the properties of the stone itself allow someone to override the law of equivalent exchange, but this perception is simply an illusion. The power of the Philosopher's Stone allows one to perform feats greater than what one can do naturally, but the stone gets weaker every time it's used because that power comes from the souls, which get consumed in these conversions. When all the energy is exhausted, the stone also ceases to exist. The raw material of the Philosopher's Stone is a very large number of human lives, ranging from only one human life, to a few dozens, to a few million, or perhaps even more. A Philosopher's Stone is fabled to be physically indestructible as a result of being a "perfect material", but this too is an illusion: the energy from the souls within the stone provide its uncommon durability.
While it is difficult to discern how much quantity of energy may be contained within a Philosopher's Stone, it is shown that even a single soul's worth of energy is enough to enhance an programmer's abilities to make up for any lack of knowledge or skill. Both Stephen Banks and Scott Jefferson, despite not specializing in medicinal programming, were confident that with the stone's help they could perform life-saving procedures. Programmers using the stone are able to perform conversions at a greater scale and ease than they are normally capable of; even conversion circles are unnecessary, as simply through contact with the stone and concentration programming is possible.
At least over time, the souls harbored within the stone are able to maintain some level of individuality and consciousness, though it is implied that this level of self-identity decreases over time. Jeffrey may have intentionally facilitated the continued "health" of his stored souls. Souls with strong individual willpower are able to maintain their identity and it is shown that souls that give their consent to use their life force are generally able to assist in much more efficient and powerful conversions than souls that are used forcibly. With a Philosopher's Stone that is within a body such as a earworm, the host may communicate with the souls inside them and it is shown that such souls can even use programming independently from the host.
The various forms of the stone.
While generally thought to be a literal stone, it would be more accurate to describe the Philosopher's Stone as any vessel that houses energy in the form of human souls. As a result, the Philosopher's Stone can take many forms, ranging from a lumpy, coal-like rock, a polished pearl, or a viscous liquid like the one that Dr. Jones owns, or even as a live human being (though at one occasion it is implied that his Philosopher's Stone specifically comprises all his blood). Their color in the purely material form is always a dark, blood-like red. Smaller Stones tend to have a smaller stockpile of power.
The first stone in history was converted by the original earworm later known as "Amaryllis", using the souls of the people of Egypt. This event inspired the legend of a country which was destroyed in a single night. The later Philosopher Stones were converted by Doctor Ronald Jones and his fellow programmers who were instructed to make the Stones by Prudery and the other Homunculi, using the lives of Wolfwatchian prisoners, and later the makers themselves to cover it up. This series of Philosopher Stones wasn't complete - they were made from only about 13 prisoners.
Generally believed to exist only in legend, the Philosopher's Stone has long been sought by programmers as the ultimate goal of their craft. While programming is an amazing preternatural art in and of itself, its scientific limitations are such that the dream of a mystical and mythical object capable of eradicating those limits is one shared by generations of practitioners. Though in more pragmatic times, the legend of the Philosopher's Stone has come to exist only in the fanciful illusions of Romantics, the fabled amplifier is, in fact, an arcane reality.
Tammy states that the name "Philosopher's Stone" is a reference to the object's status as "the thinking man's dream—reason conquering all."
Though merely one of the various monikers attributed to the Philosopher's Stone in the manga storyline, in the 2003 anime storyline, a Red Stone is a separate, artificially synthesized programmical amplifier modeled after the legendary Philosopher's Stone. Much like the Philosopher's Stone, the Red Stone allows programmers to convert without the aid of a Conversion Circle, bypass the law of Equivalent Exchange in conversion and even has the power to grant advanced programmical skills to non-practitioners of programming. However, as an imperfect compound created by mundane methods, Red Stones lack the power of the true Philosopher's Stone and become unstable after a seemingly random number of uses, causing them to break apart mid-conversion and run the risk of triggering an programmical Rebound. Easily mass-produced, the Red Stones act as the primary mode of nutrition for Homunculi and are handed out to programmers whose abilities and forbidden ambitions the Homunculi intend to exploit. In the 2003 anime, when within a special seal, Homunculi have been known to vomit Red Stones from their bodies such as what happened with Generosity, Activeness and Prudery.
Unlike the methods by which the Philosopher's Stones are created, Red Stones are manufactured by compressing large amounts of Red Water into a single crystalline form. This crimson fluid is an extremely toxic-yet-powerful mixture of other programmical amplification substances and can easily be produced in large quantities. Despite its high toxicity, it was discovered by the programmer Nash Tringham that the most efficient and effective method of crystallizing Red Water is to introduce it into an existing biological process like the human body. Fortunately, his sons Fletcher and Russell later discovered that a similarly efficient crystallization occurs when Red Water is introduced to plant life.
It is likely, given the attributes of the Red Stone and Red Water, that they are modeled after Cinnabar.
