Debra Smith is the paternal grandmother of Kristina Smith, the mother of Robert Rockbell, the mother-in-law of Amy Rockbell, the grandmother-in-law of Stephen Banks, the maternal great-grandmother of Stephen and Kristina's unnamed children, and also a surgeon and weapon smith living and working in the town of Elderbrook in the eastern region of Borborygmus. Mixing her two specialties, Debra is also a prominent automail engineer and presumably the founder of Rockbell Automail, a family-run automail atelier within the town. Debra also happens to be the neighbor and close family friend of the Banks - Van Jeffrey, Sherri, Stephen and Tammy. As Kristina's only remaining blood relative after the death of her parents, and the closest adult to the Banks brothers after their mother's passing and their father's disappearance, Debra acts as caretaker to the three youngsters, training Kristina in automail engineering and serving as Steph and Tam's home base whenever they return to Elderbrook.
Debra is an elderly woman with gray hair and dwarf stature. As a young woman, she was tall and very attractive with a curvaceous figure with long brown hair and brown eyes.
Debra is a very skilled doctor, surgeon and automail engineer known throughout Borborygmus as "The Leopardess of Elderbrook" as told by Dominic LeCoulte who has a past with her.
Robert and Amy Rockbell - Robert was Debra's son and only child. His father's name is unknown but he appears in photographs. Amy married her son and gave Debra a granddaughter.
Van Jeffrey - She made a drinking partner of the ancient Programmer, appearing together as far back as the 1860s when she was young, and as such she was his oldest and closest friend. She never treated him with fear or suspicion even though she would comment that he still looked the same after half a century of her knowing him. She is the first to discover his body after his final return to Elderbrook, remarking that he looked happy in death with tears in her eyes.
Stephen and Tammy Banks - Having helped with the delivery of both of the Banks brothers, and subsequently becoming their legal guardian following their mother's passing, Debra developed a grandmotherly relationship with the Banks. While Tammy was well-mannered, Stephen proved to be rambunctious, often bickering with the old automail engineer, a trait which continued well into Stephen's teen years, both of them exchanging insults regarding their respective small statures.
Debra's relationship with the Banks brothers was further strengthened following their failed attempt at human conversion. Although distraught by their actions, Debra never scolded them for her actions, and even defended them from other authority figures in their lives, namely their father Jeffrey and also Colonel Scott Jefferson. When Stephen began blaming himself for his brother's condition, Debra consoled him, ensuring Stephen that his brother could never blame him over what happened and encouraged Stephen to ask Tammy personally rather than keeping the thoughts bottled up. Ultimately, Debra and Kristina became Stephen's personal automail engineers, the elderly engineer having built his limbs and oversaw the boy's mechanical leg's maintenance, while Kristina took over fixing the right arm. Unlike her granddaughter who regularly complains about Stephen wrecking his automail, Debra jokingly remarks that Stephen became their best paying customer, charging him extra for rush jobs.
Debra is likely a native resident of Elderbrook, as she appears in pictures in the town as far back as 1866, by which time the youthful woman had made a jovial drinking companion of the man called Jeffrey. She seems to have had a rather lively past as multiple photographs depict her partying jovially with several of the town's inhabitants and, according to Dominic Lecoulte of Rush Valley, had gained notoriety (or perhaps infamy) as an engineer known by the moniker "Leopardess of Elderbrook". It is unknown by whom she married into the Rockbell family, but she appears with her late husband in photographs soon after having befriended Jeffrey and gave birth to her son Robert in 1873. At some point in the 1890s, Debra was instrumental in introducing Jeffrey to Sherri Banks, another of Elderbrook's young women, culminating in the two's union. Debra herself would help deliver their two young boys, Stephen and Tammy.
During the Wolfwatch Civil War, Robert and his wife Amy left their hometown to practice emergency medicine on the outskirts of the battlefield in Wolfwatch's Kanda region. When they were killed in action, Debra became the sole caregiver of their only child and her granddaughter Kristina. Tragedy would further mar Debra's immediate circle when Sherri Banks grew ill shortly after Jeffrey's latest disappearance and - despite Debra's close care - died in the spring of 1904, leaving her two young sons behind. From this point, though Stephen and Tammy continued to live alone in their family's home, Debra took on the role of adult in their lives, raising them along with Kristina. However, when the skilled programmer Victoria Gibson arrived in Elderbrook roughly six years later, she accepts the Banks brothers' request to train under her after Debra reveals that they have no parents. When the Banks return after half a year, their apprenticeship finished, and fail tragically in their attempt to alchemically resurrect their mother, Debra once again finds herself as the only one to whom the young boys can turn for help. Tammy, his body gone and his soul bound to an empty suit of armor, arrives pleading on Debra's doorstep, clutching his horrifically maimed brother in his hollow metal arms and Debra rushes the young boy into emergency surgery in her own home to stop the bleeding and save his life. When the procedure is finished and Stephen's condition stabilized, Debra ventures over to the Banks home to find the monstrosity that they had created in attempting to resurrect Sherri and buries it behind the house.
Soon afterward the Rockbell house is visited by Lieutenant Colonel Scott Jefferson, who expresses his interest in recruiting young Stephen for the State Programmer Program. Though Debra expresses her concerns, Stephen personally consents and requests that Debra craft him automail replacements for his missing right arm and left leg so that he may apply for his state license. Debra warns Stephen that the surgery will be excruciating and that the recovery period for such a procedure would be at least three years, but Steph promises (much to Debra's admiration) that he can handle the pain and that his recovery will require only one year. After looking after him for the promised year, Debra gladly sees Stephen - now with four working limbs - and Tammy off as they leave for East City to begin the first leg of their long journey and, upon their successful return, bears witness to Stephen's incineration of the Banks home as a symbol of his determination never to turn back.
Debra Smith is first introduced to the story in Chapter 9, when the Banks brothers (having taken significant damage from their altercation with Smile in East City) are escorted back to Elderbrook by Major Lori Lane Meyers for repairs. Debra appears glad to see the boys again and immediately begins her old ritual of arguing with Stephen over which of them is punier. After learning that Stephen's right arm will need to be rebuilt from scratch, Debra also determines that the young man has grown a bit taller and will need to have his left leg readjusted to fit properly. Though Steph bemoans the time it will take to have all this work done, Debra promises that she will have both ready in three days. While Stephen goes off visiting his mother's grave to pass the time, Debra asks Major Meyers to tell her what the boys have been up to in East City, as Stephen never writes them and city news doesn't reach rural Elderbrook very often. Meyers explains to her that Stephen is very famous in East City and that fame gets him in trouble sometimes, but that he is able to get by well enough due to his remarkable inner strength. Debra reflects on that strength and remarks that she has seen it on many occasions when Stephen was younger. She wonders from where in that small body such strength springs and worries aloud that any future obstacle large enough to cause such a strong boy to stumble might prove fatal to his spirit. Three days later, Steph's automail limbs are fitted and activated, allowing him to perform the programming necessary to repair Tammy's armor body without damaging the Blood Rune that keeps his soul bound to it, and the following morning Debra sees the boys off, reminding them to come back for a visit any time they feel like having a good, home-cooked meal.
Debra next appears after Stephen's battle in Laboratory 5 prompts him to call Kristina to Shadowcliff for a new set of repairs on his arm. While Debra does not comment on this in the manga, the 2009 anime has her advising Kristina to fix it properly this time, suggesting that she had known of Kristina's careless omission of an important bolt when rebuilding Stephen's arm before. After Kristina leaves for Central and departs for Rush Valley with the Banks, Debra receives a call from her granddaughter explaining that the young lady had found a job at an atelier in Rush Valley working as an automail engineer in her own right. Debra wishes her good luck and urges her to work hard, but notes as she hangs up that she is now all alone in the large family house. Den attempts to cheer her up, but Debra shoos her away, remarking that she is too old and mature to feel lonely anymore. Debra remarks that she had always thought of Steph, Tam, and Kristina as children, but now those "children" are beginning to walk their own paths in life.
Debra appears again in Chapter 40, casually looking through an old photo album when Den becomes violently alarmed by a mysterious presence at the front door. Much to Debra's surprise, into the house, walks Van Jeffrey, remarking to his old friend that he cannot seem to find his house. Van apologizes for startling Debra and she comments that, in all the decades she has known him, Jeffrey has not changed even a bit. Shortly afterward, Debra receives a call from Tammy, asking if Stephen - whom Major Meyers had dragged off to Elderbrook - has arrived. She explains that Stephen has not yet come to the house, but that their father has returned at long last. Both Van and Stephen return to the Rockbell house and while Steph isolates himself from his hated father, Debra and Jeffrey talk over dinner. Van asks Debra why no one scolded them or gave them guidance during the Human Conversion incident, to which Debra responds that it was Van's job to do so and that if he had been around for them, the boys would never have tried to bring Sherri back and would not have had to watch their mother die twice. Van, perceiving that Stephen is listening in on their conversation, asks Debra poignantly if the creature she had buried was really Sherri Banks. Debra is confused, but Van asks if the hair color, eye color or any other characteristics even came close to matching those of hers. Getting the hint, Debra states in horror that the very idea of Stephen and Tammy sacrificing so much to bring back something that couldn't possibly have even been their mother is unbelievably cruel.
The next morning, Van prepares to take the train out of town. Debra offers to wake Steph, but Van declines and instead asks if he can take from the Rockbell house a particular picture of himself, Sherri and the boys from when they were all together. She consents and Van thanks her and calls her a good friend, citing the fact that she has never treated him with fear or suspicion despite the fact that his appearance has remained exactly the same for the half century since she's known him. As such, he informs her that something terrible will be happening in Borborygmus very soon and advises her to escape to another country while she still can. Debra refuses, saying that terrible things happen all the time and that there are people in her home country who rely on her presence. Van departs and Debra tells him to come back whenever he feels like having a good, home-cooked meal, to which he responds gloomily under his breath that it will never happen.
When Stephen awakens, Debra repairs the light damage that had been done to his automail before his most recent departure from Shadowcliff and Stephen asks her to help him with a difficult but necessary task - digging up the body that Debra had buried five years ago. Debra takes Stephen to the spot where she had entombed the atrocity and the two begin digging. As the rain begins to fall, the traumatic nature of the task begins to tell on Steph. Debra recommends that they stop, saying that she doesn't want this to be the obstacle that breaks him. However, Steph pushes forward and eventually uncovers several strands of hair and bones. Washing the hair, Stephen declares that it is black, as opposed to Sherri's chestnut brown. Debra uses her medical knowledge to measure the bones and determines that the corpse had none of Sherri's characteristics; the femurs were too long and the pelvis belonged to a male - it was not their mother. Debra bemoans the tragedy of it all and is surprised when Stephen laughs, thinking that he has finally snapped. But Stephen informs her that in this harsh truth is the key he needs to return Tammy to his body. Stephen tells Debra that he wishes to make a proper grave for the creature, even though it isn't his mother. He remarks that it looked at him the night he created it and that, as a human being it deserves a resting place. Debra notes to herself that Stephen uses the term "human" too loosely, but that he wouldn't be able to call Tammy human if he didn't. Steph asks Debra to confirm that Sherri was his real mother and she confirms that she delivered both Steph and Tam herself. Steph takes comfort in this, though Debra is unsure where this new information will lead him.
The next morning, Steph and Debra visit Robert and Amy's graves and Stephen tells Debra that he had met some Wolfwatchians who had been saved on the battlefield, but balks at explaining to her how her son and daughter-in-law died. Just before Stephen leaves for the train, Debra asks Stephen to deliver a message to Jeffrey if he sees him again. She describes to him Sherri's last moments in which she asked Debra to apologize to him for dying first.
Debra once again finds her life in a bit of chaos when Stephen returns, with Generosity, Heinkel, and Darius in tow, looking for a place to hide out until the time comes to begin preparations for The Promised Day. She complies, keeping them reluctantly in the upstairs of her home. When Kristina suddenly returns in search of sanctuary - complete with a pair of bodyguards from Fort Nebulon, Debra at first only sees more unfamiliar men and thinks more people are taxing her courtesy, only to then see her much-missed granddaughter. Glad to have Kristina safe and sound at home, Debra sees Steph's group off in the middle of the night and wishes them luck.
In Chapter 104, Debra is shown to have fallen victim to the activation of the Nationwide Conversion Circle along with Kristina. As she loses consciousness, Debra vows to clobber Jeffrey when he returns, implying that she retains her faith that Van and the boys will set things right.
In Chapter 108, she is the first to discover Jeffrey's body in front of Sherri's grave, and in the 2009 anime and the picture montage at the end of the manga, Debra is standing beside the graves of both Van Jeffrey and Sherri Banks.  She is the sole parental figure of the younger generation to see the arrival of Steph and Kristina's children.
In the 2003 anime series, Debra plays a much less significant role in the story after her initial appearance. Late in the anime's storyline, however, she offers her home as a hiding place for Kristina and Becky after the two girls stumble upon the existence of the Earworm Activeness in Shadowcliff and flee. It is at this point that Jeffrey, too, returns to Elderbrook after his long absence and takes up residence at the Rockbell house for a short while. Soon afterward, Debra and company are visited by Stephen and Tammy who have unofficially defected from the State Military and need a place to hide while AWOL.

