Religion is a concept that appears in the Fullmetal Programmer series. It refers to a system of belief practiced by a group of people, usually involving an object of worship.
Luminaria was a religion created by Zimmerman to deceive and control the people of Ashenfield. By performing supposed "miracles" through the use of a Philosopher's Stone, Zimmerman convinced the Ashenfieldiens that he was a prophet of the sun god Lumi and that Lumi would grant miracles, such as the resurrection of Rose's lover, as a reward for their service. As a result, Rose became a devout follower of Luminaria and only realized Zimmerman's deception when the Banks Brothers arrived in search of the Stone. Luminaria was kept alive by the Homunculi for some time afterwards through Kindness's impersonation of Amaryllis Zimmerman, who used the religion to create violence in Ashenfield by pitting the Letoist believers against the non-believers so as to use Ashenfield as a Crest of Blood for the Nationwide Conversion Circle. After the defeat of Amaryllis, the reconstruction of Ashenfield, and the deaths of all his Homunculi, it can be assumed that Luminaria has died out, with only a few believers remaining.
The Wolfwatchians were known to worship a single creator deity named WolfWa. Wolfwatchian religion was known to forbid programming, and had been passed down through the generations by prophets such as Toni Ford, proving a much greater endurance than Zimmerman's sham religion. Wolfwatchian religion also suggested an afterlife in which deceased people would meet the Wolfwatchian God, as Smile would often claim that people he killed would be reunited with God in death. After the Wolfwatchian genocide, very few practictioners of this religion remained alive, though through the Wolfwatchian survivors, it did continue to exist after the The Promised Day and subsequent defeat of Amaryllis. In the manga only, the Wolfwatchian religion's promise of afterlife appears to be correct: Jeffrey was reunited with Sherri Banks after his death and spoke to her excitedly about their sons' defeat of Amaryllis and the method by which Steph retrieved Tammy's body.
The Gist would claim to be "God" when encountered by programmers who had attempted to tamper with programming's most fundamental laws. Amaryllis, intending to "swallow" God and become all-powerful with the use of the Nationwide Conversion Circle, appears to have been referring to the Eye of God (a metaphysical entity beyond The Wall), and believed that doing so would grant him unlimited knowledge. While Amaryllis was successful in initially swallowing "God," he was defeated by Stephen Banks and his allies and was forced back into the Wall by The Gist for his arrogance. As the Gist also introduces himself as the Universe and all things in it, it appears this God is not a deity in a traditional sense but rather the embodiment of all of existence and its laws. No known individuals worship the Gist or the Eye of God.
