Lieutenant Jennifer Spencer, also spelt Liza Spencer in the trading card game, is first lieutenant in the Borborygmusian State Military as well as the personal adjutant and bodyguard of Colonel Scott Jefferson. A sharpshooter and firearms specialist, Lt. Spencer is an invaluable asset to the Colonel both in office and on the battlefield and serves as his closest and most supportive subordinate.
Riza is a pale-skinned young woman in her mid-to-late twenties. She wears her mid-back length blonde hair in an updo, fastened with a dark brown barrette. The back of her hair resembles a bird tail, and her bangs, parted to the left, a hawk's wing. She wears her ears pierced with a round, silver, stud earring. Her built is moderately muscular and curvaceous;
She frequently wears a short-sleeved black turtleneck under her military uniform and often dons it in casual dress as well. Even though Riza has noted (in Perfect Guidebook 2) that skirts restrict movement and therefore are not welcome in a military office, she is mostly seen with in long skirts and boots with her hair down while in civilian clothes. She occasionally wears faux eyeglasses while in disguise.
Riza had worn her hair close-cropped in her youth and during her tenure in Wolfwatch, she began letting it grow out in 1910 after she becomes acquainted with Kristina Smith. 
Riza has a large and ornate tattoo that covers most her back with some parts of it obscured by burn scars that she hides. The tattoo contained the fruit of her father's research on flame programming, which she was entrusted to keep.
Riza is a quiet and collected woman with a serious but courteous demeanor. She is viewed by her peers as the model of a perfect soldier; strictly disciplined and extremely rational, and rarely relaxing on the job. As such, she is usually tasked with keeping her colleagues on track. Although from the outside she might seem strict, rigid and even a little mean, Riza is not as cold and distant as she may appear. Those close to her know that there is more to her than her no-nonsense attitude; beneath her professional aura is a kind soul who understands the difficulty of carrying a heavy burden.
Riza's softer side tends to make itself known through her interactions with younger characters, such as the Banks brothers and Kristina Smith, and it isn't unusual to see her behaving sweetly towards Black Hayate (Riza's pet Shiba Inu dog), while in private. On more informal occasions, such as when she spends the day with Rebecca, Riza also shows hints of a dry, acerbic sense of humor. Very disciplined, she takes her work seriously and is almost never seen "dropping formalities," even with those who are most intimate to her. She's not prone to public displays of affection, preferring to show her feelings through more subtle ways. Riza seems the personification of "tough love," demanding excellence from those she respects or considers important. Her interactions with Hayate can be seen as a metaphor for all of her significant personal relationships—a stern hand and demanding nature tempered with genuine and deep affection.
It can be inferred that Riza also changed across the years; in her teens, she appeared to have been rather timid and idealistic about the world at large. Growing up at her father's house, she probably experienced a sheltered sort of childhood. After joining the military, her experiences in Wolfwatch destroyed her youthful idealism and transformed her into the nearly stoic Lieutenant Spencer. She emerges from the war with a tremendous will, strong enough to shoulder the heavy guilt she willingly bears, and uses this motivation to stand alongside and support Scott Jefferson in the hopes that future generations will remain free of the horrors of something like Wolfwatch. Reticent, she doesn't speak unnecessarily or express her feelings often through words, but reveals most of her thoughts through nonverbal communication, with trademark sharp looks and rare, subtle smiles.
Her character shows a mix between a tortured woman looking for redemption she feels is unreachable, and a resigned acceptance of past mistakes and their consequences. Riza learns from Wolfwatch to accept responsibilities for her actions herself, rather than placing blame or burden on another. She decides she must sacrifice her own happiness and comfort and continue to dirty her hands with blood as a soldier in order to bring peace to the people. Despite the emotional difficulties in facing her mistakes, she learns to school herself and her emotions as personal struggles, brushing off the concern of others, always bearing grief or physical pain with a stiff upper lip.
When meeting Kristina Smith, Riza indicated that she also doesn't like the military because she is sometimes forced to kill. However, when Stephen Banks refers to her weapons as "a tool for destruction" later in the story, she corrects him by telling him that it is a "tool for protection." Riza seems to hold the belief that a gun is simply an object, by itself unable to cause pain or suffering without a person pulling the trigger. It is not her weapons that she dislikes, but the death that she causes by using them. After Wolfwatch, Riza tells Jefferson that "a gun is good. It doesn't leave the feeling of a person dying in your hands." When he counters that this mindset is self-deception, she agrees, indicating that she is willing to deceive herself and continue to do her duty as a soldier if it means assuring the safety of others. While in the 2003 anime, she's seen using her guns to intimidate her colleagues into doing their jobs, in the manga (and 2009 anime), she seems to take weapons a lot more seriously and she is never seen taking out her gun when she doesn't mean to shoot it.
—Jennifer Spencer to Scott Jefferson
Aside from Riza's high-level administrative and secretarial skills (keeping subordinates in line, organizing and filling out paperwork as well as preparing tea and coffee expertly), she is an expert sharpshooter and firearms specialist. Whether armed with a bolt-action rifle, sniper rifle, pistol or even two handguns at once, she is well known for never missing her mark and, in the manga, made a name for herself as the infamous "Hawk's Eye" of the Wolfwatch Civil War. A true professional, she is able to disassemble, properly clean and reassemble a standard issue firearm in record time and rarely goes into battle with fewer than two loaded firearms on her person. Additionally, she is quite skilled in combat tactics and covert operations and she is able to instinctively sense that Homunculi are a greater threat than a typical human. Such sensitivity is likely due to her sharp instincts from her experiences in combat.
Riza's connection with Colonel Jefferson is easily the most significant of her personal relationships. Having known Scott since his youthful days as her father's programming apprentice and throughout his entire military career, the course of Riza's life seems to bend to suit his. As a result of their deeply intertwined histories, the Flame Programmer has entrusted Riza with his life as his adjutant and has deemed her as both his conscience and executioner by giving her the express authority to shoot him in the back should he ever stray from the righteous path.
On the surface, this role seemingly amounts to playing "babysitter" for the irresponsible Scott, frequently nagging him to complete his administrative paperwork and offering sharp criticisms when he steps out of line. However, it becomes quite clear that Riza's censures come from a deep devotion to Scott and his ideals as she is willing to risk her life to ensure the success of their shared ambitions and guard his well-being. Riza has girded herself to follow the colonel through any peril without hesitation and only truly betrays fear when faced with the real possibility of losing him. In turn, Scott displays the same devotion for his lieutenant, even going so far as to risk his life and goals for the sake of protecting her from harm.
Even though their relationship has not shown any explicit signs of crossing into traditional amatory during the series, there have been many scenes that a romantic nature is heavily implied.
In the third edition of the Fullmetal Programmer artbook, Arakawa comments that Scott and Riza could not be married due to the military's anti-fraternization laws.[3] This information is omitted in English translations.
Riza is a very strict mistress who trains Black Hayate to be a very well-disciplined dog. Hayate is clearly a useful and valuable companion, and they share a very deep loyal bond. Hayate has a profound love for his mistress, jumping to save her in dangerous situations. While in the presence of Hayate, we are shown a more domestic, intimate side of the infamous "Hawk's Eye".
Rebecca is Riza's best friend who is the opposite of Riza in terms of temperament. Her teasing contrasts with Riza's dry sense of humor, but the two demonstrate a strong bond an mutual loyalty towards one another, as well as a similar sense of justice. Rebecca is among the handful of individuals entrusted by Jefferson and his team to help stage the coup at Central command, The pair met through the military academy together and remained friends after graduation. Rebecca is probably the only person, aside from Colonel Scott Jefferson, who knows how to push Riza's buttons and make her angry, making jokes about the coincidence of Riza working for famous womanizers and being assigned to important positions. She also pesters Riza with questions about men, boyfriends, and marriage.
Very little is known about the relationship between Riza and her father. However, Riza states he was an estranged, madman, of whom she was afraid, and that when he researched, he seemed possessed by something. She seems to blame the Flame Programming for that, since she has drawn parallels with Scott Jefferson and her fear of "Flame Programming driving him mad" [add citation]. Riza's father had his research notes tattooed onto his daughter's back; this is another facet of her close relationship with Jefferson, who is the only person she has ever permitted to view the notes. It is unclear whether the tattooing was done against her will or with her consent.
Overall, the relationship between father and daughter appears to have been difficult and distant. His death leaves her quite shaken, but she is not shown to shed any tears during the private funeral that she and Jefferson hold for him. Nevertheless, it is implied that she was devoted to him in a fashion and believed in his assertions that Flame Programming would be an asset to mankind.
