Scott Jefferson, also known as the Flame Programmer, is the tritagonist of the Fullmetal Programmer series. He is a State Programmer and officer in the Borborygmusian State Military. A hero of the Wolfwatch Civil War and Stephen Banks’s superior officer, Colonel Jefferson is a remarkably capable commander who plans to become the next Führer of Borborygmus.
Scott is a clean-shaven young man with dark eyes. Scott's dark hair - perhaps in keeping with his persona - is worn casually unkempt, falling over his eyes; in more formal or somber situations, however, he is known to wear it neatly slicked back.
A great fan of classy attire, Jefferson is rarely seen out of uniform (and even while in uniform will often don other accouterments, such as a long, black overcoat and white formal-wear gloves), but when dressed in civilian clothes, he appears rather partial to the three-piece suit and black tie (frequently coupled with classic scarves, polished dress shoes and the aforementioned overcoat and gloves). It may be interesting to note that Scott tends toward dark or neutral colors in his dress, such as dark blue, brown and black tempered with minimal white.
After the events of his fight with Prudery, Scott carries a faint scar on the back of his right hand in the shape of the Flame Programming Conversion Circle. He also carries a large burn wound on his left side, lower back and abdomen from the same event.
Scott is perceived as a shallow, self-absorbed, and a womanizer among many of his colleagues and subordinates. The latter has effectively increased his unpopularity among the enlisted men, many of whom fear having sweethearts and crushes romanced away from them by his hand. Easily as arrogant as his young protégé, Stephen, Colonel Jefferson is one to act in an ostentatious manner and appears to act mostly out of self-interest rather than any sort of philanthropy. He often slacks on paperwork and other menial tasks, but is quick to take action when it appears that there is glory and military notoriety to be gained.
However, while these traits do have a place in his real personality, much of his outward persona is a façade intended to mask his ambition, and have those unfamiliar with him underestimate his remarkable intelligence and prowess. Jefferson is an exceptional tactician, well-versed in various strains of combat theory and particularly talented in the realms of surreptitious information-gathering, covert operations and enemy ensnarement. Scott is expertly manipulative and prone to think several steps ahead of those around him, giving him a remarkable talent for making subordinates act exactly as he wishes despite appearing not to have had a hand in their decisions - all traits which make the fact that he has managed to attain the lofty rank of colonel at such a young age.
Inwardly, Jefferson harbors a deep ambition to lead the country, allowing no obstacle to hinder him on his path to the top. His own actions in the Wolfwatchian Civil War have left him with haunting regret and a desire to bring to justice those who committed war crimes, even if this includes himself. Recognizing the corruption and futility stemmed from the war, Jefferson seeks to lead the country himself to a better cause.
At the core, he is a remarkably devoted commander with a strong sense of justice. Though he hides it well behind a veil of cynicism and self-importance, Jefferson is a man who cares deeply about the people who trust and support him and goes to great lengths to ensure their safety and well-being, even at the risk of his own. As a man with considerable power, Jefferson considers himself a protector to those without and acts accordingly, earning the staunch loyalty of his most trusted compatriots.
Unfortunately, his self-imposed position as protector has caused him to display a penchant toward stubbornness in regards to his pride on the field and a fiery temper, both of which have been shown to cloud his judgment in certain situations.
Easily the most significant of Scott's personal relationships is his connection with Lt. Spencer. The relationship between Scott and Riza is glossed over in 03, as is Riza's motivation to follow Scott, as neither is pertinent to the divergent plot.
As the daughter of Willie Spencer, the man who taught Scott to use programming, Riza has known Scott throughout his youth and military career and has a personal stake in how he chooses to live his life. In turn, Scott has entrusted Spencer with his life as his personal assistant and bodyguard and has entrusted her to act as his conscience, giving her the express authority to shoot him in the back should he ever step off the righteous path.
Scott and Riza repeatedly demonstrate a deep, genuine sense of concern and devotion to each other as equals. Scott has stated many times that Riza is "truly kind" and "sweeter than she seems", although he's often seen complaining about Spencer being demanding and too stern with him. He enjoys teasing her at any given opportunity, especially at the times she shows her affections openly. He also has a tendency to act on impulse whenever Riza is in danger.
Though their relationship has not shown any explicit signs of crossing into traditional amatory during the series, the romantic nature of this relationship is often implied.
Jefferson's best friend from their shared days at the military academy, Joseph Jackson is Scott's closest friend inside and outside of the military. Almost constantly calling Scott on the phone or dropping into his office to say hello, Joseph' uplifting persona is an active deterrent to Colonel Jefferson's often gloomy disposition. Joseph is also the strongest secret supporter of Scott's bid for Führer, often giving him inside information from his position in the investigations office at Central Command as well as slipping him pointers on how to achieve his dream. Though Scott often receives Jackson with disdain and annoyance, when Joseph is mysteriously murdered, Scott is overcome with grief and rage to the point that he becomes almost obsessed with finding his friend's killer.
Officially, Jefferson is Stephen's superior officer, but their relationship is far from the typical professional connection. There exists between them a sort of amicable animosity, as Scott takes a great deal of personal pleasure in teasing Fullmetal and watching him squirm under his orders and, at the same time, Steph takes pleasure in getting around his orders and showing Jefferson up whenever he manages to find an opportunity. Though their meetings are fraught with a great deal of apparent, mutual dislike, Flame and Fullmetal hold a great deal of respect for one another and are compatriots as well as co-conspirators in the secret battle against the Homunculi. Having originally scouted the young boy for the State Programmer program and formed a bond with him, Scott genuinely wishes to see Stephen fulfill his goal and Stephen also subtly supports Jefferson's secret bid to become the Führer and improve the country and was genuinely worried when Scott was consumed in hatred while battling Kindness. Their personalities are quite similar, both being quite fond of boasting of their own abilities, but willing to do anything to protect their loved ones.
Even among the elite State Programmers, Colonel Jefferson is a particularly skilled programmer adequately versed in standard physical conversion, experimental theory, and biological programming. However, the brilliant skill that has earned him his state license, national notoriety and the status of "hero" during the Wolfwatch Civil War is his remarkably powerful fire-based combat style. Jefferson's unique style of combat programming is made possible by his custom-made gloves. Made of "pyrotex/ignition cloth," these gloves create a spark when Scott rubs his fingers together and embroidered with unique flame programming Conversion Circles, they allow him to manipulate the concentration of oxygen in the air. When attacking, Jefferson raises the density of the oxygen surrounding his target to a level at which it becomes volatile and creates narrow pathways of oxygen between himself and his target through which he can direct the ensuing flash fire that blossoms from the spark of his gloves. As a result, he can incinerate any number of enemies in the field while deftly avoiding any adjacent allies. The 'snap' sound heard at the start of these conversions is caused by the instantaneous speed at which the highly concentrated gases and sparks react together and pop (and not Jefferson's fingers actually 'snapping', to common belief.)
As one may expect, Flame Programming is explosive, deadly, and nearly indefensible, stated by its creator to be "the most powerful type of programming" and acknowledged by the Homunculi as the most troublesome ability out of all State Programmers. What makes Jefferson so dangerous, apart from the sheer destructive potential of fire itself, is the speed of his conversion. Unlike other fire-users in fictional media, Jefferson does not "throw" or "launch" fire from his person, but rather explosive flames simply appear wherever he wishes them to at instantaneous speed. Only a single moment is needed for him to incinerate a target, the size or location mattering little in the face of his techniques. As a result, often the only way to combat him is to interrupt his programming before it starts, either by disrupting his conversion circles or introducing the element of water. It has also been revealed that Scott is able to delegate each hand to a different flame effect, possibly due to a difference in hand dexterity. The right hand appears to allow for large explosive attacks, while the left allows for smaller, but strong and very accurate pinpoint flame attacks.
While Jefferson's Flame Programming cannot be used on rainy days because the humidity makes it impossible for his gloves to produce sparks, it becomes clear that water itself does not make the Colonel entirely as "useless" as his subordinates assume. Using the conversion circles on his gloves, Scott is able to separate hydrogen atoms from the oxygen atoms in water molecules, isolating them into a highly combustible fuel and powerfully volatile oxidizer, respectively. Though this method can only be used when a large quantity of water is present in a relatively closed-off space (and not in the rain where the air is open and separating hydrogen and oxygen for the purpose of combustion would pose far too much danger to anyone in the vicinity), with an outside source of ignition such as a cigarette lighter or a match, Scott can produce extremely powerful, localized explosions.
Flame Programming is the brainchild of the master programmer Willie Spencer, who had spent several years perfecting it before his death from illness in 1905. Believing it to be the greatest and most powerful form of programming possible, Spencer refused to pass on the knowledge to Scott, who was his apprentice at the time, and instead entrusted the secrets of his search for knowledge to his young daughter Riza - tattooing the perfected array onto her back as the only physical record of its existence. The full array appears to consist of a circle corralling an inverted hexagram made up of a large air triangle and a large earth triangle, both splitting into identical pairs as they intersect, with a fire triangle at the center, pointing upward toward a flame. Below the hexagram is an image of a salamander. Outside the circle is a pair of entwined basilisks and the text of the "Libera Me" responsory repeated multiple times. After Scott gains Riza's trust and takes the Flame Programming knowledge for himself, he modifies the symbol somewhat for his gloves (removing the text and the basilisks in favor of a simplified circle). At Riza's insistence, he reluctantly uses his new knowledge to burn parts of the image off of her back, erasing the important aspects of it from existence, and freeing her from the heavy responsibility of carrying it.
When he is forced to perform human conversion and see the Gist, Scott gains the ability to convert without a circle, clapping his hands to compensate for the sigils on his gloves being shredded. While at first he is apprehensive of this mode of programming, he quickly realizes that because of the absence of the need for conversion circles he is no longer limited to flame-based programming on the battlefield, as seen when he transmutes a stone wall to protect himself, Riza, and Major Lori Lane Meyers from Amaryllis's attacks.
