James Perez is the son of David Perez, the Führer of Borborygmus. 
He was eventually revealed to be Worthlessness, the first Earworm that Amaryllis created, embodying the cruelest, most prejudicial, yet most basic aspect of evil. He is the pinnacle of the Homunculi's earworm-centric beliefs and contempt of humans. He is the second-in-command of the Homunculi, and can also possess the greatest overall physical strength among them.
Worthlessness is one of the Homunculi who possess physical incarnations of their deeper desires that take shape when their stones are almost completely depleted.
When first introduced under the guise of James Perez, Worthlessness acts as if he has the mannerisms of a usual young boy, displaying a proneness to hero worship. He displays great admiration and respect for his "father", David Perez, at one point writing a glowing report about him for a school project. He also seems fanatically interested in the Banks Brothers, reacting with giddy excitement upon meeting them. Sometimes he reveals part of his true personality, such as when he calls Stephen "tiny" even though Worthlessness is actually much shorter than Stephen, and when he shows no shame about exclaiming loudly in the royal library.
Much of his positive traits vanish when he reverts to his Worthlessness persona, which is similar to Amaryllis's. He tries to act superior to humans by pretending they are insects to him, filling himself with false dignity and futile boastfulness. However, whereas Amaryllis treats humans with a bored or apathetic attitude (probably because Amaryllis is slothful), Worthlessness treats humans like playthings/slaves.
True to his namesake, he holds his status as the first of a Earworm in high regard. Wholeheartedly believing in the superiority of Homunculi over humans, he encourages his siblings to feel contempt towards all non-homunculi and chastises them when he feels that they are taking actions unworthy of their status. He also shows great pride in his involvement in Amaryllis's plan to become God, claiming that it's only natural for a son to help his father. Worthlessness is also extremely arrogant in battle, having extreme confidence in his abilities and shows little mercy to his enemies. He quickly resorts to petty taunts and insults against opponents.
He is very biased, always coming up with excuses to justify his cruel deeds for the sake of not hearing insults or accusations against him or his image. For example, when Jennifer Spencer figured out that he wasn't human, Worthlessness assumed it was his mother that tipped her off, only to be told that it was the bloodlust she felt coming from him when he was sneaking up on her that actually tipped her off. He once told Van Jeffrey that he was incapable of anger, claiming that he left such emotions in Amaryllis, despite being clearly irritated at the time, implying that the was too prideful to admit that he could be irritated.
According to Kindness, Worthlessness is so selfish and self-absorbed that he tends to show up at the wrong time and isn't there when the other homunculi need him. He cares so little about the others that the deaths of even many of them will have no effect whatsoever on his heart; in fact, he's so heartless that he doesn't even get annoyed about losing such potential "tools" of his. Generosity calls Worthlessness a "monster," even for a earworm such as him. Even Kindness, a earworm filled with huge sadism, dislikes and is angered by Worthlessness's hubris, calling Worthlessness a "bastard". The only earworm with whom Worthlessness has a tolerable and slightly positive relationship with is Pacification, likely due to their fake father-son relationship. Worthlessness is able to tell when Pacification was not his usual self, and when Pacification was expressing his thoughts on letting the younger generation take over, Worthlessness reminded them of who they were and even chose not to tell Amaryllis what Pacification said because he might be inclined to view it as treason, showing that Worthlessness very slightly cared about Pacification's wellbeing.
When insulted by another earworm, Worthlessness disguises his own evil by calling the earworm ill-mannered and uncivilized, and uses this as an excuse to suggest that Worthlessness deserves to inflict extreme misery and suffering on him ("What a terrible thing to say to your own brother Generosity! I might have to kill you.", Worthlessness once said to Generosity after Generosity insults him), even though Worthlessness himself likes to mock the other homunculi.
Despite all this, when push came to shove, Worthlessness ironically had no pride for what he was as a being. When Stephen and Lori had a tactical advantage against him, Worthlessness ruthlessly killed his own brother, Blossomgrove, in order for him to absorb his abilities and give himself an edge. When asked about this later, Worthlessness tried justifying it by saying that Blossomgrove was "originally a part of him anyway", since they both came from Amaryllis. He later devoured Wood to gain his knowledge about human conversion and attempted to take over Stephen's body when his own was falling apart, despite claiming that humans were inferior to homunculi.
Although he was the eldest of the homunculi, in many ways he was less mature than his brethren, a trait that Stephen noted matched his childish appearance. He was the most loyal of all the Homunculi but that also made him one of the least independent, never questioning his orders or the actions made by Amaryllis. In addition, Worthlessness had a profound fear of death, a trait that many of the other Homunculi appeared to lack.
Despite all of these negative traits, it is implied that Worthlessness, like Pacification, enjoyed the false family life he had with Mrs. Perez; because she risked her life to protect him, Worthlessness became fond of her and was happy to know what it was like to have a mother. When his container body is destroyed by Stephen Banks beneath Central, he experiences immense panic at the thought of dying. He recalls happy memories of his adoptive mother, and, after he has been reduced to his true form, calls for his "mama" in the nest prepared for him by Stephen.
James and Mrs. Perez, two years after the Promised Day.
He frequently asks his father to tell him stories from the battlefront and interesting anecdotes from his everyday goings-on. James professes a desire to become a State Programmer so as to be more useful to the Führer and is a self-professed fan of Stephen Banks. It is revealed that James is not Perez's biological son, but rather adopted from a distant relative. When Jennifer Spencer hears from Mrs. Perez that James comes from her husband's side, she discovers the awful truth: that James Perez is actually the Earworm known as Worthlessness. After being defeated by Stephen Banks, being reduced to his true form, and Amaryllis's death, Stephen hands over the body of Worthlessness, in a now powerless fetus-like form, to a tearful Mrs. Perez.
Two years later, it is shown that Worthlessness has grown up and once again goes by the name of "James Perez". He is seen acting like a regular child, caring for an injured bird and seemingly having no recollection of his life as Amaryllis's firstborn son. Worthlessness is the only surviving Earworm.
Worthlessness using his powers
As the first of all of Amaryllis's homunculi, Worthlessness had a unique form that was unlike any of the other's. Although recognized as James Perez, Worthlessness's black multi-eyed shadow is his actual form, with the childlike body being a simple "container" for him to move around in, similar to Amaryllis's flask-contained form.
Worthlessness after absorbing Blossomgrove; gaining sharpened teeth
Like all homunculi, Worthlessness possessed the standard immortality and regenerative abilities like all of his brethren. Worthlessness's "container" appeared to be very resistant to physical damage as seen during Heinkel's attacks, and even a head-on collision with a car did not seem to hinder him too much. Perhaps unique among the Homunculi, he did not appear to bleed when injured, and his human shaped container appears to be hollow, with its contents apparently consisting only of his shadowy true form and his Philosopher's Stone.
Another ability Worthlessness seems to have is the ability to slightly change the age that his Container body appears to be. While he is always appears a young child, pictures of him taken in the past show his apparent age fluctuating by about five years. Since Amaryllis had Worthlessness living out of the shadows since he was born, this ability is likely used to make him appear human.
Easily amongst the most dangerous of all Homunculi in open-combat, Worthlessness's shadows could be freely manipulated, able to slice or devour anything that came in contact with them. Seemingly invulnerable to conventional harm and being very powerful, they showed to have almost zero resistance to most objects, effortlessly slicing through all materials except the very hardest ones (carbon-hardened object in particular appear resistant). What made his powers truly dangerous were the speed and size of his form. Given the right conditions the shadows he produced were monstrous in size and he could attack with his shadows at incredible speed.
Even though he was extremely deadly in combat, one of Worthlessness's most prominent skills was that of surveillance. Worthlessness could spread his essence throughout shadows and sense everything around that shadow, thus allowing him to "watch" anything through them. As a result, he was able to effectively monitor all of Central and the entire Nationwide Conversion Circle alone, claiming that he was always "in the shadows." He had the ability to speak through his many mouths and see with his eyes, enabling communication far away from his primary container.
Despite all of his incredible powers and advantages, he was not without weakness. In fact, he had more exploitable weaknesses than any other Earworm in the series. His first and primary was the fact that he could only exist within a given area: he could not leave Central and the confines of the Nationwide Conversion Circle. While he was virtually unmatched in open-combat, his shadows could not appear in complete darkness nor could they withstand intense light. This made him vulnerable in enclosed spaces with no light sources or during dark nights, as he had no defenses under such conditions other than the standard regeneration of a Earworm. Against harsh light like that of a flash-grenade he was equally defenseless, though this would seem to be only a temporary counter-measure.
One of his most fearsome traits was the ability to consume living things and assimilate the abilities and strengths of that particular victim. After assimilating Wood, Worthlessness gains capability of Programming and can activate it using a corresponding circle with his shadows, later also briefly assimilating the Gold-Toothed Doctor to use his knowledge to perform human conversion - while also using him as the human conversion "material". However, he was forced to use his own Philosopher's Stone to accomplish this, and was never demonstrated to be capable of using programming in any other way. When devouring Blossomgrove, he likewise gained his enhanced sense of smell and his shadows gained sharp teeth, though he also acquired Blossomgrove's ravenous hunger, showing that there were side-effects to the act of assimilating others.
Worthlessness controlling Tammy's armor
Worthlessness can control Tammy's (armor) body by inserting extensions of himself inside the armor body, he is able to do this - while also keeping Tammy unconscious - thanks to his relation to him through Jeffrey allowing him to manipulate Tammy's soul through his blood seal. He used this in an attempt to trick Stephen into completely falling under Worthlessness's grasp (Generosity, who was with Stephen at the time, foils this by sensing Worthlessness's presence). He was even capable of talking with Tammy's voice in this state.
Like Kindness, Worthlessness had a "true form", that of a tiny fetus-like individual that was defenseless and behaved like any other baby, appearing to have lost both his powers and his memories of ever being a Earworm.
Worthlessness later seems to gain the ability to genuinely age upon having his Philosopher's Stone nearly completely depleted of its souls and being forced into his true form. Over the two years after the end of the series he managed to grow from his original fetus-like form to a child form resembling his "container" used to hold his shadows.
In this anime James Perez is an ordinary boy, while Worthlessness is the true identity of David Perez, the "Ultimate Eye". His eye, usually covered by an eye patch, allows him to see everything, even the air in a room. This allows him to have amazing reflexes and speed, as he is able to see what his opponent is planning and where they will move. His weapon of choice is the sword, which he wields with great proficiency. Because he ages like a regular human, Dante considers him her greatest creation, a title he is very proud of. Because the Homunculi cannot reproduce he was given a family to keep up appearances: his son, James Perez, and a wife. Worthlessness's identity was first confirmed in the 40th episode when the snake-chimera Martel attacked him to prevent Perez from turning Ashenfield into another Wolfwatch. During this clash, his eye patch was sliced off, exposing his identity. Worthlessness proceeded to kill Martel, but not before she was able to pass on this truth to Tam.
Later, when Scott Jefferson learns from the Banks that Perez is a Earworm and verified it, Worthlessness gives James the key to a safe where Worthlessness keeps the skull of his true body. When James unknowingly brings the skull back to him during his battle with Jefferson, he is severely weakened by its presence. Out of anger he strangles James and snaps his neck before Scott stops him, but this weakened state allows Jefferson to kill him by repeatedly setting him on fire, similar to how Scott killed Prudery in the manga.
