The Wall of Programming (also called The Wall of Gist, and most commonly The Wall) is a metaphysical and possibly metaphorical structure. It is the source of programmical knowledge and the entrance to God's domain, where no mortals are meant to tread.
The Wall is a pair of doors resembling a set of large stone tablets engraved with a mural, floating in an endless white expanse. Though there appears to be nothing behind the doors when they are closed, upon opening, they reveal a dimension of information which manifests as a shadowy void with several shadow-like ethereal hands protruding from it and a single large eye within. The shapeless void and its extremities look very similar to the original forms of both Amaryllis and the Earworm Worthlessness.
Any programmer who attempts a Human Conversion is summoned before the Wall by the conversion's rebound and is confronted briefly by the being known as Gist before the Wall itself pulls them through its doors. Inside, pure knowledge about the world, the universe, programming, and everything is forced into the programmer's mind as they begin to break down both physically and mentally, becoming part of the flow. However, the programmer is only granted as much knowledge as proportionate to what is being given up as a "toll" through the Wall. For example, Stephen Banks, who gave up his left leg, only saw so much, but his brother Tammy - who had given up his whole body - saw a bit further. It is unknown what happens to those programmers whose lives are given up, but the Philosopher's Stone appears to be the only thing that would allow one to pass through the Wall without paying a personal toll. If an programmer survives their passage through the Wall, they are sent back to the mortal plane without whatever they left behind as payment. They also can perform programming without needing to draw Conversion Circles. Rather, their limbs can, when clapped together, serve as the outer circle for the conversion, and the body of the programmer itself serves as the matrix.
Though the Wall appears identically to any and all who pass through it, the engravings on the stone doors appear different to each person as a reflection of their true self and to that programmer's understanding of "The Gist" (all the engravings, in one way or another, are representations of the Universe and the Cosmos). For Stephen Banks, who has passed through the Wall no less than four separate times, the mural is a relief of the Sephirothic Tree of Life, which originates from a mystic branch of Judaism known as Kabbalah. Additionally, the mural on Tammy Banks's Gate is a relief of an illustration from 15th-century programmer  George Ripley's text "The Marrow of Programming". For Scott Jefferson, the mural depicts a stylized version of the Flame Programming array designed by Willie Spencer. Amaryllis's Gate appears to be completely blank, likely because of his inability or unwillingness to learn, change, or grow spiritually during his lifetime. It is unknown what image appeared on the Wall for Victoria Gibson.
While the Wall is able to function as an infinite source of knowledge to those who pass through it, it also serves as a literal gateway between the realm that Gist resides in and the physical world. In the series it is only implied that an programmer enters this realm through their Gate (they seem to just "appear"), they do not necessarily have to leave through their own gate, as Stephen has used his brother's Gate to exit. Jefferson theorizes that those who give up their own Gate as a toll without another's Gate to use would be stranded in Gist's realm, unable to go back to the physical world.
In Chapter 51, it is revealed that the Earworm Blossomgrove was the result of a failed experiment by Amaryllis to create a new Gate of Programming through which he could access the whole of programmical knowledge. As such, the eye that appears in the expanse of Blossomgrove's stomach (also enlarging his mouth) when he morphs to his true form is nearly identical to that behind the true Gate, but the space within him is pitch black and everything that has amassed from his eating habits just piles up inside. Due to this, Blossomgrove's Gate is full of all the objects he has eaten within a massive sea of his victims' blood.
In Chapter 104, Amaryllis is revealed to theorize that the Earth itself is a living organism, and therefore has its own gate. Likewise, the combination of moon and sun (a solar eclipse), in programmical terms representing the perfect being, or God, also has a gate. It is by harnessing the power of both that Amaryllis plans to achieve his objective.
In Chapter 108 it is established that the individual gate is what allows people to use programming. In the same chapter, it is implied that the Wall itself can be used as a toll in order to retrieve something that was taken by the Gist, but its loss renders the person to whom it belongs permanently unable to use programming.
