The Gist, or simply Gist, is an enigmatic, metaphysical being who appears when a person attempts Human Conversion. Seeing Human Conversion as an unfair exchange according to the equivalent exchange laws of Programming, Gist will bring the Programmer into the Wall and forcibly take their most valued attribute, or something of value that represents their anticipated relationship to the person they are trying to create or resurrect. Gist will accept otherwise impossible exchanges when a Philosopher's Stone is used, as it or part of it will be used for the exchange instead.
As a negative version or "conscience" of the programmer who performed Human Conversion, Gist is perceived by the finite human mind as punishing them for "Playing God" by abusing the power of Programming. Gist embodies the universe, serving as both a deity and monad for it, and also represents the consciousnesses and consciences of living things. Gist is all things in the universe. Including all people and, therefore, the closest thing to the concept of "God" to appear in the series. As Gist is the person it is judging, all punishments are ultimately what that person thinks are proper for their transgression.
Aside from humans, all living things possess their own Gate of Gist, through which they can see Gist.
Gist is depicted as a white, featureless version of whoever passes through the Wall; this represents the fact that the only one casting judgement is oneself. The Gist's voice sounds feminine and often ends with a sharp accent. Gist can be seen being in possession of items that it took from the Programmer when they opened the Wall. In Stephen's case, Gist appears as a featureless young boy, but later possesses Stephen's arm and leg which were paid as an equivalent exchange for seeing Gist and getting Tammy Banks's soul back. In Tammy's case, Gist possesses his entire body and appears as such.
Due to their relative appearance, when Stephen Banks and Tammy Banks each appeared before the Wall, Gist vaguely resembled a young boy and when Victoria Gibson appeared, Gist's shape reflected that of a young woman. It appeared as a vigorous man to Scott Jefferson, and when the Dwarf in the Flask entered the Wall, he appeared as the Dwarf's original form when he lived in the flask. Meanwhile, Gist also speaks in the manner similar to the person he met, so as to represent his existence as One, All, Universe, God and Gist along with the claim that he is also the reflection of programmer themselves who break the taboo. As he speaks in a more stubborn style to Stephen, his speaking manner is more polite when he met Tammy.
Gist presents itself as sadistic and cruel, but fair and wise in its rationality. Each transgression is punished by removing whatever it was that the transgressor most valued such as removing Steph's ability to stand on his own two feet by taking his leg, Tammy the ability to feel his lost mother's touch, or Victoria's womb, the means to replace the child she lost and tried to bring back.  Its presence acts as a punishment for the ultimate transgression of human conversion. Gist always does what it believes is fair in trade and will forcefully take from offenders. Gist holds no bias, options or prejudices as it sees all who break the rules of Programming as equal in their offenses and thus receiving equal punishment by losing what they value. Gist shows no favorites of victims and no mercy or exceptions.
Above all, Gist aims to uphold the laws that bind the universe and thus punishes any trying to perform acts that cannot or should not happen. Ultimately Gist's seeming malice is a lesson: It wants to teach humans that Programming isn't everything, and that it should not cause them to see themselves as above others, that being the ultimate hubris behind all human conversion. Life and death are to be accepted, not abused. When Stephen chose to give up his Gate of Gist to save his brother, Gist emphatically congratulates him for having passed the test and finding the correct answer.
Gist does show some mercy. When Jefferson was forcibly put through human conversion by Worthlessness with the Gold-Toothed Doctor as a sacrifice, Gist blinded Jefferson and showed him his inner gate like all other programmers, allowing him to convert without drawing a conversion circle; the physical deterioration that should have gone to him was dealt to Worthlessness instead, causing his James Perez container to begin breaking down.
Gist shows its greatest moment of humor when Amaryllis is forced to meet him at the Wall laughing that the Dwarf hadn't grown beyond his flash days and has failed by rejecting his seven sins, and therefore his humanity.
Gist's gleaming smile.
Gist introduces itself as a being that Humans refer to by many names, including God, the World or the Universe. Though Gist initially appears welcoming to those he meets, its attitude quickly changes to one of mild sadism, taking delight in calling attention to their hubris before opening the Wall. Anyone who performs Human Conversion is immediately brought to Gist, who is typically prompt in taking a toll from the programmer that summoned it, usually one which metaphorically or ironically evokes that which the transgressor most values in life.
Due to Stephen Banks opening the gate in an attempt to bring his mother back through Human Conversion, Gist takes Stephen's left leg and  takes his brother Tammy Banks’s entire body. Stephen opens the gate again and trades his arm for his brother’s soul. Both had encountered it as they were forced to pay their tolls.
Though Gist appears in Stephen's dreams, its next true appearance is in Chapter 53, when Stephen crosses to the true Gate from inside Blossomgrove's internal imitation. Gist appears amused, and mocks Stephen for not attempting to retrieve what was taken from him in his first attempt at human conversion. Gist appears as Tammy here, as the whole of Tammy's body was taken as his toll.
Victoria Gibson attempted to bring back her child through Human Conversion, and Gist took some of her internal organs, presumably including part of her reproductive system, leaving her incapable of ever becoming pregnant again and with chronic hematemesis.
It is not confirmed if Van Jeffrey ever saw the Wall, but it can be presumed that his programming technique that doesn't even require the normal hand gesture of clapping one's hands together is obtainable by paying an even greater toll upon reaching the gate, letting him see even more of the Gist beyond it.
Scott Jefferson, who was forced to open the gate by Worthlessness (with the aid of Pacification), encounters Gist during the battle with Amaryllis. Regardless of this conscious decision to not perform Human Conversion, Gist still had him pay the toll by taking his sight. It is imperative to note, however, that Gist also took away most of Worthlessness's strength (or souls that make up his Stone), as Worthlessness used himself as the Human Conversion circle, and this may have contributed towards the toll that was paid for opening Jefferson's Gate. Unlike the Banks brothers, Jefferson went through with the choice to use a Stone as a replacement for his toll and was able to recover his eyesight as shown in the epilogue.
In Chapter 102, Amaryllis discusses the irony behind the works of the 'Gist', who took Steph's way to 'stand by himself' and his 'only family', Tam's body so he 'cannot feel the mother's warmth as he craved', Victoria's 'capacity to nurture the seed of life' and, now, with Jefferson 'depriving the man who had a grand vision to save his country of his eyesight, denying him to see what his beloved nation will become'. In Amaryllis's perspective, the Gist is cruel and sadistic, whose only ambition is to make people suffer.
In Chapter 107, Gist appears once more before Tammy once his body and soul are finally reunited. Gist returns Stephen's arm in exchange for Tammy's soul, while wondering with the younger Banks if his brother will return for him and what he'll sacrifice.
In Chapter 108, Gist appears before Amaryllis and mocks him for trying to claim the power of God for himself and for thinking that mankind could be transcended by ridding oneself of the seven deadly sins, alluding to Amaryllis that those sins exist to give humanity a chance to transcend in spite of harboring such imperfections. It implies that Amaryllis never actually matured beyond its days in the flask. It then banishes Amaryllis to depths of the Wall he had been summoned from, commenting ironically that Amaryllis must have known this would be his punishment.
When Stephen returns to the Wall after the final battle with Amaryllis, Gist appears before him and asks what he'll give up in order to bring Tammy’s entire body back to the human realm. Stephen offers his own Gate of Gist, and thus his power of Programming in exchange. Gist seems startled, but when Steph declares that the power of programming was not what was important in his life, Gist is pleased, congratulating Stephen on finding the correct answer and beating it. Gist then vanishes with Edwards gate, after pointing him towards the exit and his brother.
According to Amaryllis, Gist's tolls are often based on dramatic irony, oddly unfitting of Equivalent Exchange, which Gist upholds. Stephen had to pay for the leg he stood on and the only family he recognized as having left. He then paid his right arm to get Tammy's soul 'back', which Gist recognized as an equivalent exchange, as one could consider Tammy being Steph's 'right-hand man'. Tammy's soul was not used as payment, however, as it was affixed to the result of their human conversion, which means that his body contributed to the toll. This can be interpreted as its own punishment in multiple ways, such as taking away his sense of touch and cutting him off from other peoples' warmth, or thinking along the same lines, making him become their failed creation and thereby an abomination no one wants to associate with. Victoria lost the ability to conceive at all through the permanent removal of her reproductive organs, depriving her even further of her 'motherhood'. The irony in Jefferson's case would be that he would not be able to 'see' the future he would make for Borborygmus if he were to become Führer.
Gist's, in both its actions, visual representation and stated goal is to show those that would abuse their great power are ultimately harming themselves. This is most evidenced by Steph's final encounter with Gist, as Gist gleefully admits defeat when Steph declares that he does not need Programming to be happy, since he has his loved ones by his side. Such an interpretation explains some events such as the final talk between the Gist and Amaryllis, when Gist says that the Earworm hasn't grown and evolved through what he experienced, and that he "already knows" what he should have done and why he was punished like he was. The ultimate representation of this was that while Amaryllis directed his pleas to God towards the Door, the only entity that could truly be called God was next to him without him realizing.
Gist's presence, influence, and implications closely tie in with concept on the 'meaning of life'. It also possesses some parallels with the River Styx.
