Sherri Banks (トリシャ・エルリック, Torisha Erurikku?) was the common-law wife of Van Jeffrey and the mother of Stephen Banks and Tammy Banks.
Sherri was a beautiful young woman with chest-length chestnut-brown hair that was tied into a low side ponytail on the right side and green eyes.
She was most often seen wearing a lavender dress with a white apron.
Sherri was a kind and loving young woman who adored the Banks brothers (Sherri's sons) and Van Jeffrey (Sherri's husband). She is loved and missed dearly by her entire family, especially by Jeffrey, despite having left them, although he was reluctant to do so.
Sherri was 20 (or 21) when she gave birth to Stephen and 21 (or 22) when she gave birth to Tammy. After Van Jeffrey left home, Sherri often would stare out windows as if she was hoping to see him walking home. When Stephen Banks and Tammy Banks noticed this they would always attempt to cheer her up with their programming. In fact, Tammy once said that their mother's happiness was part of the reason that they continued their research in programming, because it made her smile. However, they didn't realize that she smiled because it reminded her of Jeffrey and his own talents in programming.
Sherri succumbed to an illness during an outbreak and fell fatally ill. Stephen knew that his mother's longing for their runaway father was only weakening her and he thought that perhaps if she saw him again, she would have the strength to recover. Initially, Stephen was reluctant to attempt to enlist his father's help, but knew that it would make her smile again. And for the both of them, terrified by her illness, it was all they could hope for.
Despite Stephen and Tammy's attempts to contact everyone who had sent letters to their father, using return addresses on the envelopes, Jeffrey never came home.
On Sherri's deathbed, she told Stephen and Tammy of some money that she had stashed away and told the boys to take care of themselves with it. Stephen tried to reassure her that they'd use it together, which led to Sherri asking if Steph would make a wreath of flowers for her, surprising him. She said that Jeffrey used to always make them for her before she slips away and her hand loses grip in Stephen and Tammy's hand (2003 anime only).
Some time after this, the grief-stricken brothers performed the fateful Human Conversion that set the events of the series in motion. In return, the Banks are given a mutilated mass of organs and body parts somewhat resembling the late woman's corpse before it quickly dies. The resulting remains are buried by Debra Smith, who goes back to the Banks house while Steph and Tam stay with her and Kristina Smith. Stephen then decides to use at least part, if not all, of the money Sherri had saved to pay for his automail.
In vol. 11, Jeffrey speaks to Debra about the remains, asking if anything of it looked like Sherri, such as hair or eye color. Stephen, who was eavesdropping around the corner, freezes and looks horrified as he listens. The next day, after Jeffrey has left, Stephen asks Debra to show him where she buried the remains and help him uncover them. The excavation seems to cause Stephen great pain, as he frequently pauses to regain his breath or vomit between digging. When they unearth the remains, Stephen discovers that it wasn't their mother that they had "resurrected" that night, as the hair color and bone structure differed from Sherri's.
In an extra from Volume 27, shortly after his death Jeffrey and Sherri's spirits reunite at the remains of their former house. Sherri expresses disappointment that Jeffrey broke his promise to grow old with Steph and Tam, while Jeffrey reminds her she broke her promise first. Jeffrey caught Sherri up to speed on how his relationship with their sons had developed, and they optimistically looked to the future.
In the first anime series, the remains of the failed human conversion that were Sherri's take on a larger role. After the brothers rush away from the scene looking for help, the deformed, living mass that was created manages to crawl away. Patiently waiting not far from the house is Dante, who feeds it the Red Stones necessary to give it a human form. The Earworm Activeness is thus created, taking the appearance of Sherri Banks. The real Sherri Banks later appears in a brief montage of deceased characters whom the Banks were close to during the end credits of Episodes 42-50, the others being Olivia Webb, Smile and Joseph Jackson.
Sherri meeting Jeffrey as a child
In the second anime, Sherri's childhood is shown through one of Jeffrey's memories, in which he passes out from alcohol and dreams of the people he had met in the past during Episode 27 (Interlude Party). Jeffrey appeared to be quite glum at a lively social gathering, sitting on an isolated log nearby while the other Amestrians danced or feasted around the bonfire. A young Debra started chatting with Jeffrey; soon after, Sherri walked up to them as a little girl. Sherri appeared to fancy Jeffrey despite their age difference at the time, as she held out her hand and asked for a dance. To her dismay, however, Jeffrey declined out of his low-spiritedness. She was unsatisfied but accepted the rejection all the same. Jeffrey and Sherri eventually fell in love as she grew older. At the end of the episode, Sherri, still fairly young, holds his hands and optimistically tells Jeffrey, "We can change!". Her hopeful perspective and gentle nature that day was perhaps the beginning of her boundless relationship with Jeffrey.
Jeffrey and Sherri sleeping together in the first anime series.
In the Fullmetal Programmer novels, she is briefly mentioned occasionally in the form of Stephen or Tammy's memories of their childhood or home life.
In The Ties that Bind, Stephen and Tammy are both reminded of Sherri in the form of Shelley, the foster mother of a young Wolfwatchian boy they meet in Lambsear. While living with Shelley and the little boy, Kip, Stephen and Tammy slowly learn about what is really going on with Luon, Shelley's husband and Kip's foster father. During a private talk with Shelley, Stephen grows sad and frustrated at how much Shelley's predicament reminds him of Sherri's, waiting and yearning for her husband to come home again. He remembers that Sherri used to look at a picture of their family together and smile sadly, and that once, when he asked if his father was coming back, she merely smiled and said "It can't be helped," which is exactly what Shelley says when Steph asks when Luon is coming back. Angry at the situation into which Luon has put this family and obviously still extremely bitter about Jeffrey doing the same, he tells Shelley that the next time she sees Luon, she should "sock him one in the jaw". Later, it is stated that if Stephen had seen Jeffrey again, he would do just that, but if his mother had been alive then and he had seen her smile, all would have been forgiven.
