Egypt, alternatively romanized as Cselkcess in the Viz manga, was an ancient country that existed in the Great Desert to the east of Borborygmus four hundred years before the start of the series. Despite having had a remarkably advanced society for their era, the entire population of Egypt mysteriously vanished, and was left behind only in the fragmented legends of neighboring countries.
Ruins of Egypt.
Egypt was a relatively peaceful, thriving land despite the harsh conditions of the desert that surrounded it and, at the time of its sudden disappearance, had a population of over a million people. The majority of the population was sustained by crops grown in the plantations of the suburbs. The water used day-to-day was taken from wells and the upper-class people wore shawls. The urban areas developed around domed temples and lively trade markets. Egypt appears to have had a markedly intellectual culture that fostered written languages as well as longstanding philosophical and programmical studies. In an age before modern construction materials, the people of this land had mastered the construction of stone and brick buildings ranging from simple stucco-coated homes to lavishly enormous palaces. Though slavery seems to have been a common practice, it was possible for slaves to rise out of thralldom through education, even going so far as to become members of high society, as intellectuals were considered part of Egypt' upper echelon. Egypt was also a centralized monarchy, with a King and royal court governing from the capital, a castle city in the center of the country.
When a prominent programmer within the King's court created a Earworm with extensive arcane knowledge of programming, the aging monarch saw his chance to transcend his dreaded and inevitable death through immortality. The creature agreed to become the royal court's primary consul on the subject of programming-based immortality and persuaded the desperate king to construct an array that would encompass all of Egypt and use all the people's souls to create a source of immortality. A large trench was dug according to the Earworm' specifications, while the citizens were given the impression that their dutiful king had ordered the construction of irrigation canals to defend their crops against drought. Beginning with the northern town of Bonath, five towns around the circle were destroyed - the homes burned down and the people and livestock slaughtered - carving a crest of blood into the land. However, when it came time to activate the circle, it became immediately apparent that the Earworm had deceived the court.
By providing slightly incorrect information and thus fashioning the array around himself and his caretaker instead of around the King, as he had claimed to have done, the Earworm was able to cleverly steal the lives of Egypt' citizens, royalty and his creator for himself and use them to create a pair of immortal bodies, each housing half of the nation's souls. Egypt' entire population was wiped out instantly, leaving only the two immortals to survive as Human Philosopher's Stones. The two parted ways, leaving the dead country of Egypt behind.
Over decades Egypt decayed into ruins and the circumstances of its destruction remained unknown to anyone besides Jeffrey and the Earworm. A legend of it's destruction being caused by a Philosopher's Stone emerged sometime afterward, possibly spread by Jeffrey himself, but details were vague and most were skeptical to believe it. The Earworm, later known as "Amaryllis", would return to the remains of Egypt centuries later to destroy the evidence of his sin; having his son Blossomgrove devour the Conversion Circle inside the castle to keep others from realizing the truth behind the fall of Egypt, and the fact that he planned to repeat the tragedy in Borborygmus.
In more modern times the ruins of Egypt consist mainly of the decaying remnants of the king's castle and capital city; the famous, yet remote site acts as an oasis for travelers venturing across the Great Desert from Borborygmus to Velox or vice-versa. Additionally, the ruins serve as a haven in which a number of Wolfwatchian refugees have taken refuge in the years after the Wolfwatch Civil War.
Stephen exploring the ruins of Egypt and discovering the Conversion Circle.
In 1914 when Pamela Yates was framed by Kindness for Joseph Jackson' death Scott Jefferson used Egypt to hide her after faking her death where Fu would to take her to Velox for protection, in exchange for freeing Lori Robinson from prison. Stephen Banks would explore the ruins during this time and discover the remains of the Conversion Circle within the castle, sparking suspicions due to his recent encounters with the Homunculi.
When Stephen, Lori and Kindness were accidentally swallowed by Blossomgrove and stranded in the fake portal of Gist, Stephen discovered the other half of the Egypt Conversion Circle's remains that Blossomgrove devoured centuries ago. With this Stephen finally deduced that the Homunculi were behind Egypt destruction and used it to create a Philosopher's Stone which also gave Stephen the first hint towards Amaryllis's endgame.
Jeffrey would later tell Stephen and Tammy, (as well as Generosity possessing Lori, Darius and Heinkel accompanying Stephen at the time) the full account of Egypt' destruction. At the end of the series Stephen and Tammy are the only living descendants of Egypt and they, along with Lori, Darius and Heinkel, are the only living people to know the truth behind Egypt' destruction.
It would only be due to the later efforts of both Jeffrey (mainly due to his traveling around Borborygmus for years to place bits of his Philosopher's Stone throughout the land containing the souls of the many of the lost Egyptians who agreed to help him prevent Borborygmus from sharing the same fate) and Smile that Amaryllis was prevented from re-enacting this disaster and give everyone else a fighting chance of defeating Amaryllis, enabling for Stephen to finish off Amaryllis for good after Tammy and Generosity's sacrifice.
For the most part, Egyptian people are characterized by having light complexions as well as gold-colored hair and eyes; however, there does seem to have been a minority of citizens with darker skin tones and similarly light-colored hair.
The nation of Egypt is only mentioned briefly in episode 27, when Tam and Steph study programming and talk about the risk in human conversion and Tam mentions "the country they say died in a single night". Steph is convinced that this story is just a fairytale, but refers to it as "The story of the Philosopher's Stone in the eastern desert", meaning they talk about Egypt and not the Underground City beneath Central.
