Alchemy is, as it is understood in the Fullmetal Alchemist series, the ancient metaphysical science/mystical art of manipulating and altering matter and, to a lesser extent, energy, by using natural energy. This act is known as Transmutation and its sequence is usually described as:
Alchemy's use is incredibly broad and involves the reconstitution (or destruction) of any type of matter. The proper application of this craft requires not only a full understanding of chemistry and ancient alchemical theory, but also a sort of natural talent towards recognizing and manipulating the physical objects with energy, which require uncommon levels of intelligence and aptitude. Those remarkable individuals capable of studying and practicing Alchemy are known as Alchemists.
In a broad sense, Alchemy can be described as the ability to change the properties of physical matter through transmutation. This is not limited to standard solid matter as well, gaseous or liquid elements can have their properties, temperature, and direction altered with the proper transmutations. Typically, alchemists can only affect matter within their immediate vicinity, usually through contact with the body.
The potential for Alchemy's usage is wide and at first glance seems unlimited, though the greatest barrier for most alchemists is knowledge (or the Comprehension stage). Alchemists can only perform transmutations on subjects they are familiar with, and the size, scale, and complexity of a transmutation is likewise linked to their individual skill and knowledge. For example, an alchemist cannot perform a transmutation on an object whose molecular makeup they do not recognize or understand. If an object made from a new alloy was presented, then it is likely that no alchemist could alter it without first being informed of the makeup of that alloy. As a result, many alchemists choose to specialize in a certain craft, such as medicinal Alchemy which focuses more on biological transmutations or combat Alchemy, which involves fast, practical transmutations for war. The general barrier of knowledge within Alchemy is the reason that alchemists are both scholars and scientists, and often seek, preserve, and hide knowledge.
While it is not clear what inherent qualities an individual needs to be able to perform Alchemy, it is known that it is connected to The Gate, as it is demonstrated that without one, alchemy is impossible.
There are many paths by which alchemists can transmute the various substances of the world, with some alchemists being said to transmute by way of the Four Classical Elements (Water, Earth, Fire, and Air) and some by way of the Three Essential Principles (salt, sulfur, and mercury), but the basic tenet at the very foundation of all Alchemy is that of Equivalent Exchange.
In standard practice, Equivalent Exchange is separated into two parts:
Although Equivalent Exchange governs the material transfer of matter within transmutations, each performance of Alchemy requires energy to perform. For those practicing Alkahestry, this energy comes from what they describe as the Dragon's Pulse, a metaphysical energy that flows through the land. For those practicing Alchemy in the west, it was stated that the energy used came from the movement of the planet's tectonic plates (though this turned out to not be true).
Since the alchemical forces being manipulated are not human in origin, but of the world as a whole, the consequences for attempting to bypass the Law of Equivalent Exchange in transmutation are not merely failure and cessation. When too much is attempted out of too little, what occurs is called a Rebound, in which the alchemical forces that are thrown out of balance on either side of the equation fluctuate wildly of their own accord in order to stabilize themselves - taking or giving more than what was intended is often unpredictable and catastrophic in ways such as accidental mutation, serious injury, or death.
The Transmutation Circle that the Elric brothers used for human transmutation in both animes.
Though no machine or equipment is needed to produce the energy necessary for transmutation, merely understanding the sequence of transmutation and the limitations of Equivalent Exchange is not enough. In order to begin an alchemical transmutation, a symbol called a Transmutation Circle (錬成陣, Renseijin) is necessary. A Transmutation Circle can either be drawn on the spot when a transmutation is necessary (in chalk, pencil, ink, paint, thread, blood or even traced in dirt) or permanently etched or inscribed beforehand, but without it, transmutation is generally impossible. All Transmutation Circles are made up of two parts:
The Transmutation Circle that the Elric brothers used for human transmutation in the manga (recreation).
The circle itself is a conduit which focuses and dictates the flow of power, tapping into the energies that already exist within the earth and matter. It represents the cyclical flow of the world's energies and phenomena and turns that power to manipulable ends.
Edward's basic Transmutation Circle.
Inside the circle are specific alchemical runes. These runes vary widely based on ancient alchemical studies, texts, and experimentation, but correspond to a different form of energy, allowing the energy that is focused within the circle to be released in the way most conducive to the alchemist's desired effect. In basic Alchemy, these runes will often take the form of triangles (which, when positioned differently, can represent the elements of either water, earth, fire or air), but will often be composed of varying polygons built from different triangles. For example, the hexagram is a commonly used base rune in Transmutation Circles because it creates eight multi-directional triangles when inscribed and can, therefore, represent all four classical elements at once. Other, more esoteric runes (including astrological symbols, symbolic images and varying lines of text) are prevalent and represent a multitude of other, specific functions for the alchemical energy that is released.
Alphonse's basic Transmutation Circle.
Like instructions in a book, the runes dictate the effect of the transmutation. Depending on an alchemist's level of skill, a simple transmutation circle can perform a wide variety of transmutations, while some transmutations are so complex that they need very intricate and detailed runes. Even an alchemist that normally does not need to draw a physical circle like Edward will occasionally opt to if the transmutation is difficult enough. In addition, the physical size of a transmutation circle is also implied to affect its power, with the effects of some trasmutations increased to incredible levels when drawn to the size of cities or even countries.
While almost every alchemist needs a physical circle and the corresponding array to perform transmutation, this is technically not necessary. Alchemists who have a greater understanding of the nature of the universe and Alchemy as a whole have been shown to be able to transmute simply by clapping their hands together, using the joining of their hands as a circle and "themselves" as the array. This ability appears to be limited to only those who have witnessed The Gate and does not seem to be knowledge that can be described or taught.
Certain master alchemists have been shown to take this a step even further, able to perform transmutations without any apparent movement at all. However, whether this can be attributed to the fact that the Philosopher's Stone could bypass the need for any physical circle, or such alchemists imply have greater knowledge of Alchemy as whole have no need for one is unknown.
The Grand Arcanum Array as seen in episode 22 and in the end of the 2003 anime.
A Transmutation Array is similar to a Transmutation Circle in that it is used to circulate the energy used in a transmutation. However, unlike a Transmutation Circle, the runes are not confined to the circumference of the circle and may use the circle only as a small aspect of their function. In some instances, a transmutation array may not even be a circle at all, using different concepts to bring about the circulation or release of the energies involved. Transmutation arrays are often found as full body tattoos on alchemists due to the shape of the human body. It is also possible that the non-cyclical nature of transmutation arrays amplifies the 'destruction' stage of Alchemy, as they are seen on places such as Scar's right arm and as a circle in the Grand Arcanum (exclusive to the 2003 series). It is shown in the 2009 anime that reconstruction is also augmented by transmutation arrays as shown with both Scar and his brother's other arms.
A very basic transmutation circle.
Over the nearly 400-year history of Alchemy in Amestris, great strides in alchemical research have been made by mixing these runes together to augment their power, converge their results and create entirely new pathways of utilization.
Unfortunately, these experiments have given birth to a dark and sinister side of Alchemy. Whether out of despair, malice or inquisitive hubris, several Alchemists have been known to attempt the application of transmutation to the human body and/or soul, in essence, playing God with human lives. But, just as the Law of Equivalent Exchange applies to the transmutation of non-living matter, devastating rebounds can occur in Human Transmutation because human lives and souls are priceless according to the flow of the world.
Attempts to bring deceased human beings back to life are the most common practices to be called Human Transmutation and play a significant role in the Fullmetal Alchemist series. Using various experimental theories and methods, multiple alchemists in the manga and anime have endeavored to resurrect dead loved ones, but such pursuits are always failures, forbidden by the flow of the universe and Alchemy itself.
In the manga and 2009 anime, it is determined that resurrection through Human Transmutation is impossible because a soul that has left the mortal coil has passed on into the afterlife and can never be called back by human means. The attempt will cause a rebound due to both the inherent lack of any particular substance able to match a human soul in value and the fact that the initiated transmutation is reaching for an unattainable goal. Of the known attempted Human Transmutations, the rebound has been the "taking" of parts of the initiator's body out of the living world and into the void of the flow (in the case of the Elric brothers' attempted transmutation of their mother, Edward's left leg and Alphonse's entire body were taken and in the case of Izumi Curtis' attempt to revive her dead child, several of her internal organs were taken). It should be noted that the size of the body parts taken are generally equal to the size of the human being transmuted, in accordance with the law of Equivalent Exchange.
In addition, for having trespassed in God's domain with Human Transmutation, the initiating alchemists are essentially called into The Gate of Truth to face God itself. Being pulled through the gate grants alchemists great alchemical and universal knowledge - in exchange for paying a physical toll which usually takes the shape of the body parts "taken" by the rebound - and the ability to perform transmutations without a circle. As demonstrated with Roy Mustang, even if an alchemist is forced to perform Human Transmutation against their own volition, it makes no difference and they will undergo the same process.
While attempted resurrection is the most common method of Human Transmutation, it is not the only way to perform it. Any method of manipulation and recreation of the human body and soul is a form of Human Transmutation and will therefore call upon the Gate. This is shown when Edward uses Human Transmutation to recreate his own body, essentially using the act as an excuse to open the Gate. Despite not attempting to recreate life, doing so still enacts a toll on the user, of which a Philosopher's Stone can be used in its place.
In the 2003 anime, the results of Human Transmutation are different. The anime declares that it is possible to bring dead humans back into the living world, but upon being revived, they generally become inhuman Homunculi with the physical appearance and memories of the humans they used to be. Using the Philosopher's Stone or a human life as the material to recall the soul, it is possible to bring back a human as a complete human. Al also implies that it may be possible to complete a preexisting homunculus. If this is done, which theoretically could be done with a Philosopher's Stone, (allowing one to survive, creating a homunculus and to attach a soul to it) it is unknown if the now complete homunculus will be a full human and thus able to perform Alchemy, age, reproduce and die easily, or not.
The next most referred-to form of Human Transmutation is the concept of an alchemically created artificial human, called a Homunculus. Though largely considered impossible due to the fact that all recorded and reported attempts to make one have been failures, this act is one of those specifically noted in the Amestrian nationwide prohibition of Human Transmutation.
Al's Blood Rune as seen in the anime.
Another terrible form of Human Transmutation is the manipulation of human souls. Though appearing on no official records, there have been experiments with Human Transmutation involving the extraction of souls from their matter bodies and the alchemical binding of said souls to inanimate objects usually by way of a rune drawn in blood on the object itself. Though not all the specifics of soul binding have been made clear, it has been explained that the iron in the blood bonds alchemically with the iron in the object (as most instances of soul binding has used metal armor as a vessel) and the blood itself remains bound to the soul of the person from which it was taken. The Blood Runes themselves differ based on the theories and style of whatever alchemist performed the binding, but the three different Blood Runes that have been revealed depict a spark or flame (presumably signifying a soul) hemmed in by other symbols in a blood-drawn Transmutation Circle that suggests a soul trapped within a container. In essence, these souls exist in the mortal plane without their bodies, are able to manipulate the objects to which they are bound and communicate verbally with beings around them but, of course, there are caveats.
Despite the fact that these souls cannot feel pain or die by conventional means, since the "bodies" they now inhabit are not mortal, the act of binding two such different things together is only temporary, as the soul and vessel will eventually reject each other and separate.
Though the manipulated soul is independent of its original matter body, the issues regarding the storage of knowledge and memory suggest that, for a soul binding to remain intact, the original matter body must remain alive somewhere. This creates another issue, as the soul and its original body will be inexorably drawn to one another. This fact is only stated in the manga and the 2009 series; the 2003 series makes no mention of the body still needing to be alive for the binding to succeed.
The Amestrian government has experimented with soul manipulation and binding under the command of Father, but the case of Alphonse Elric's soul binding is remarkably unique as the only known instance of a particular human soul being purposely called back to the mortal plane from the Gate of Truth. Edward Elric, for performing this brand of Human Transmutation, let his right arm be taken as the toll and drew a rune using his own blood. It has been posited that this was only possible because the two brothers had been pulled into the Gate together and may have had their souls crossed in the process.
Additionally, the body of the soul-binding victim Barry the Chopper was infused with the soul of a lab animal and remains as the only known instance of a soul being bound to a living vessel. It is also unknown whether the act of transmuting the souls of Barry the Chopper and the Slicer Brothers resulted in a rebound or appearance of the Gate of Truth.
Chimeric Alchemy is a branch of bio-Alchemy that seeks to alchemically "marry" two dissimilar life forms into a new creature, but even though this science skirts the line of playing God, the prohibition of Human Transmutation forbids alchemists from incorporating human beings into the practice of chimera production. However, there are alchemists who flout this decree and step across the threshold into monstrous experimentation. Shou Tucker, the Sewing-Life Alchemist, was the first recorded alchemist to successfully create a Human Chimera, passing his crime off as a full-animal chimera capable of human speech until his second attempt was exposed to the military, but (as with Soul Binding) the Amestrian government has also been experimenting with this, having created several human-animal hybrids of increasing versatility.
The Sage of the East, bringer of Alchemy to Amestris.
The origin of the power that drives Alchemy varies between the anime and manga and, indeed, depending on who explains it within the series.
In the manga, Alchemy is said to have been taught to Amestrians over 350 years prior to the start of the series by a mysterious man known as The Philosopher from the East and is explained to harness the diastrophic energy that is released from the movement and collision of tectonic plates deep within the Earth's crust to power transmutation. As practitioners of Alkahestry understand Alchemy differently, they are able to sense that the source of Amestrian Alchemy's power is not diastrophic energy, but more akin to the movement of many, many human beings, suggesting that the origins of Alchemy may, in fact, be rather sinister. It is revealed late in the series that, while the tectonic energy source does exist, Alchemy in Amestris is actually powered by Philosopher's Stone energy, being fed through a nationwide network of underground tubes from Father's body into the earth between the surface and the crust to act as a barrier between Amestrian alchemists and the true energy. Additionally, the ancient nation of Xerxes appears to have had an advanced understanding of Alchemy that mirrors, but may be different from, the contemporary Amestrian understanding.
