Envy is the embodiment of some of Father's envy. Envy has the ability to shapeshift. This ability can be used to assume the form of any existing person (or original personas that Envy himself creates). He can even modify his own voice to directly copy others. Being a homunculus, Envy technically has no sex. Although he is capable of taking the form of both male and female people, he is usually referred as a male, and takes a male form mostly.
Envy, who exists only to make humans suffer, bears more bitter resentment for humans than any other homunculus, and negatively treats with humans in the most personal and heartfelt manner. His hatred for humans has an immense emotional and personal foundation greater than any of his siblings'. Envy can easily be set off by insults due to his large and delicate ego, thus causing him to make mistakes.
Envy usually appears as a pale-skinned androgynous teenage young man with a lean, muscular build. Envy has long, wispy hair, violet eyes with slit-like pupils, and wears a black crop top, skort, elbow length fingerless gloves, stocking-like footwear that exposes the heels and toes, along with a matching headband with an alchemical, triangular symbol on it.
Although already formidable in his human form, Envy can assume a much larger, chimeric shape with a serpentine body, multiple pairs of legs, long human-like hair, a dog-like head and six pupils in its left eye. The most disturbing feature of Envy's unleashed form are the human faces and limbs protruding all over its body like drowning people momentarily attempting to surface before being pulled down by others. These are physical representations of the dozens of souls of Xerxians that Father absorbed and used to create the Philosopher's Stone that is Envy's core.
In his true form, after most of the stone that is his core is destroyed, Envy is a small, caterpillar-like serpent with multiple legs (which is directly underneath him like those of mammals and birds) and a jaw-less, sucker-like mouth resembling those of lampreys and parasitic flatworms. He is virtually helpless save for attaching to another living thing to take control, but once able to reach a Philosopher's Stone, Envy can regain his full ability.
Envy giddily reveals himself as the one who sparked the Ishval Civil War.
After his brother Pride, Envy is by far the cruelest Homunculus, joking around and delighting in human misery. Envy will kill without hesitation, usually playing on his target's emotions to have a psychological advantage, with no remorse for what he has done. He even takes pride in the suffering he inflicts, going so far as to boast about starting the Ishvalan War and ruining the reputations, lives, and souls of thousands with only a single, effortless move. Envy's only personal intention is to make humans fight each other and suffer.
Beneath this cruel and aggressive exterior, however, Envy is secretly jealous of humans' inner strength and the mutually beneficial friendships that they share, as most of Envy's kind show little real concern or emotional support for one another. This jealousy motivates Envy to hate and mistreat humans very personally; more personally, in fact, than any other homunculus.
Envy seems to resent being confronted about his inner envy. This eventually causes Envy to commit suicide. Notably, before this revelation, Envy disguised his inner motives so well that not even a slip of his true reasons occurred.
Despite his callous, ruthless, and sinister persona, Envy occasionally shows a more silly, rambunctious, and even comical personality around his fellow homunculi, and even some humans. When referring to his human appearance as being "cute and youthful," Lust reminded him that he was, ironically, the most ruthless homunculus, a reply which mildly angered Envy. Another example was during Envy's second confrontation with Edward and Ling Yao, where Envy constantly asked Ed to stop trying to beat him up, but Ed was in a fit of rage after being called short and would not back down.
Envy, at times, demonstrates a vanity streak over his appearance. He is irritated when Lust says his personality is 'vile' and nearly attacked Greed when he called Envy ugly. Upon his introduction, Envy refers to his preferred form as young and cute and very obviously enjoys looking attractive. However, he seems to greatly dislike his true appearance, and he yells at Ed and Ling to not to look at him while he was in said form.
Envy does not have particularly good relationships with his fellow homunculi. He acts more as a handler for Gluttony than an equal and is unsympathetic to his grief over Lust's demise, acting annoyed and frustrated more than anything. He shows Envy's relationship with Greed is overtly antagonistic, as like the other homunculi, Envy perceives Greed as a traitor, and it takes very little time for the two to throw insults at each other.
Deep down, Envy is the saddest homunculus, having never known any true content or satisfaction.
