The Dwarf in the Flask: Homunculus, referred to as "Father» by his "children", the other homunculi, is the main antagonist. He was the oldest Homunculus and the progenitor of the Homunculi, creating them directly or indirectly. Arrogant and self-righteous, he deems only power over and ownership of the world, "perfect goodness and being", and "divine order" worthy of his attention, and he sought to become absolutely "superior" to the human race. One of his outward looks bears a striking resemblance to Van Hohenheim.
"Father" was created from the essence of the Eye (with some of Hohenheim's blood mixed in), and thus Father's shadowy actual form greatly resembles the Eye. "Father" inherited much knowledge from the Eye, and, when it comes to amount, only those of the Eye and Truth exceed his knowledge.
Father's original personality, when he was known as the Dwarf in the Flask, was more human-like and beautifully charismatic than when compared to his later self. He had a much more polite, charismatic, yet also somewhat sarcastic personality to him. "Full of human emotions", as Van Hohenheim notes. His later self is stated by Hohenheim to be much more stoic, composed, almost lifeless, and almost always looking bored, the reason being that he had supposedly purged himself of the seven vices, although this "purging" seems to have been incomplete, since he acts in sinful manners that reflect the seven vices.
Father is also highly intelligent, manipulative, narcissistic, callous, merciless, pitiless, egotistical, megalomaniacal, deeply selfish, and believes that everyone around him is nothing but tools to be used as part of his plans. The only exceptions to this may be his seven Homunculi "children", as Hohenheim had stated during their battle that one of the reasons he had created them was because he wanted a family of his own, hence his title of 
"Our Father", a fact that annoyed him but which he also does not deny. Despite potentially desiring this at some point, however, by the time he purged himself of all his "sins" to create his "children", he had no emotional attachment to them whatsoever.
His thirst for power seems to be the only thing more important to him other than himself, noted when he does not hesitate to abandon his Homunculus "son" Pride in exchange for resupplying his Philosopher's Stone or to absorb Greed into his body to resupply it. Also, though he considers the Homunculi to be his children, he never expressed grief for any of their demises. Unlike Lust or Envy, Father has also stated that he feels no such hatred or contempt towards humans. He confesses to Edward that he merely sees humans as nothing more than steppingstones for himself, explaining his outright indifference and apathy towards them. When Hohenheim asked him why he would make his "children" this way, Father revealed that the seven Homunculi were only created so he would become a perfect being.
The Homunculi's personalities vicariously reveal more about Father, since, as he tells Greed himself, they were born out of his own vices, as well as the subconscious emotions that drove them, and everything they feel he has felt himself. This is particularly true of Greed, Envy and Pride. Greed's desire for possessions was really an attempt to escape the loneliness and desire for close friends he felt deep down. Envy's grandiose hatred of humans covered up a deep-seated inferiority complex and jealousy towards humans, particularly their sense of emotional intimacy. Pride's great ego and disdain of the human race covered a certain lack of self-reverence, as he was constantly looking for a way to improve himself whenever he got backed into a corner. These revelations suggest that deep down, part of what Father wanted to purge was his own unbearable loneliness and jealousy that humans had each other for social, emotional, and physical support whilst he was originally the only Homunculus on Earth.
Since he couldn't be like or part of the human race, and since he felt constrained by the sickening social deprivation he suffered through, Father decided that he would strive to be better than the creatures he came from. He resolved to break free of the flask that prevented him from having physical contact with people, and once he did, he shunned all the "burdensome" feelings he previously desired (longing for experiencing intimate, physical and familial companionship with other people) as "inferior" by going for what he deemed infinitely greater (the power to chaotically abolish the physical laws imposed upon everything). However, despite him viewing this as him "improving" himself, all this really did was strip away all of Father's unique personality quirks until he was nothing but an echo of his former self, walking down a path he set out for himself, because he literally had no desire to stop.
Father's envy towards humanity is especially apparent considering the fact that, when he was free of his flask, he took the form of Hohenheim, hinting that despite his flippant attitude towards him, he was jealous that Hohenheim was allowed to have the things he wanted. This theme continued even after he purged himself of his sins, as when Hohenheim broke his fleshy container, Father chose to remain in a humanoid state, even though he could take whatever shape he wanted, and when he finally absorbed the Portal of Truth, he took the form of a young Hohenheim.
Despite Father's claims that he did not care for humanity, when he had Greed absorbed into him, he was very happy to hear that the Elric brothers were Hohenheim's children and wondered what Hohenheim had been up to all these years. However, when Father reunited with Hohenheim, after Greed had been expelled from him yet again, Father acted very coldly towards Hohenheim and did not speak to him throughout their confrontation until Hohenheim forced his hand. Another sign that showed Father's hidden desire for connection is, when he sacrificed Xerxes, Father made Hohenheim immortal along with him as thanks for his existence. However, when he did the exact same thing to Amestris, Father used Hohenheim as one of his sacrifices to obtain the power of God.
Father viewed the Truth (the consciences of alchemists) as a personal God, and that by absorbing this "God" he would become absolutely perfect. He also thought that, since Father considers himself perfectly good, the Truth is on his side, and that all those who got punished in for participating in Human Transmutation are evidence that humans aren't worthy of having the powers of a god. Father's extremely personal interpretations of the Truth's works have a logical flaw, according to Edward Elric, as he pointed out that Father was willing to force someone into preforming Human Transmutation to pursue his goals, which contradicted his high and mighty attitude.
Although he claims to have no emotions, he actually does display them, sometimes as seemingly friendly ditziness, but also anger and great cruelty. If anything, it's more like his emotions are fairly low key, as despite his normally calm, brooding personality, he is shown to be extremely excited when his plans finally come together, showing a wicked, gleefully evil side to his personality, as he was giggling with delight as the nationwide transmutation circle took effect. When outside of his human container and revealing his true form, he is often seen with a sadistic and homicidal grin.
At the end of the day, Father's desire for freedom was overshadowed by his need to be better than the people he envied, whether he realized it or not, and no matter what he did, he was never satisfied, because he was constantly doing the exact opposite of what he wanted deep down. He was so obsessed with being "perfect" that he couldn't see that he had the freedom he desired from when he was in his flask and that he wasted the immortality he bestowed upon himself hiding underneath Central City instead of exploring the world. Ultimately, Father never learned his lesson, as he tried to argue with the Truth that everything he did was necessary for his pursuit of perfection, only to be sent back to the very void of knowledge he came from, begging to know what he should've done differently.
Father's first form is a small round mass of black gas with a single eye, a wide toothy mouth, and tendril-like arms, making him resemble the Eye of Truth from inside the Gate (This might be because Father was created from the entity's essence). As "The Dwarf in the Flask", he was unable to perform alchemy, but his immense knowledge of it and general understanding of the world was able to inform and guide the people of Xerxes. In this form he was very vulnerable and stated that he would die if he left the flask. He returns to this form after his defeat, being assimilated by the Eye of God soon after.
Due to his imitation of Hohenheim's body in Xerxes, Father's second form is a container which looks identical in appearance to Hohenheim, excluding hair and skin color, hairstyle, clothing, a few additional wrinkles, and a lack of glasses. Hohenheim has referred to this form as nothing more than a human-like husk that Father uses to hide his true appearance. He is normally seen in the cavity beneath Central in which he and the Homunculi reside, sitting on a stone or cement throne with numerous pipes leading to it. The throne itself also has a physical connection to him, which can be unattached from him via pipes directly protruding from his spine. He uses the pipes to spread the Philosopher's Stone beneath the nation of Amestris. The purpose behind this is to act as a barrier between the tectonic energy of the earth's crust, where Amestrian Alchemy gets its energy from, so that he can stop others from using Alchemy at any time. Doing this, however, has aged his body slightly more than Van Hohenheim, who still looks identical from the time of Xerxes. This process, however, can be countered by a "Reverse Transmutation Circle", which is a concept Scar's brother had figured out by combining Xingese Alkahestry and Amestrian Alchemy practices. Alkahestry was unaffected by Father's barrier because Alkahestry uses energy from the Earth's chi instead, which allows Scar and May Chang to continue using their alchemy even when Father blocks Amestrian Alchemy.
Father's body is created by and contains the Philosopher's Stone that came from half of the souls of the human population of Xerxes (however, he later gave parts of it to create the other Homunculi). He has also shown the ability to directly create Philosopher's Stones from his body and as well absorbing them. Due to his origins as a being from The Gate, Father had a greater degree of knowledge on alchemical theory and its practice than any other being on the planet. Coupled with the almost unlimited energy from the people of Xerxes, he is able to perform alchemy without drawing a transmutation circle, clapping his hands together, or even moving at all. It is in this form that Father created his seven sin Homunculus, gifting them with numerous powerful abilities such as the Ultimate Spear, Ultimate Shield Ultimate Eye and as a Homunculus himself, Father would have the standard enhanced physical capabilities as his homunculi children and should be even physically superior to all of them, being their progenitor and their own Philosopher's Stones being just mere fractions of his own Philosopher's Stone. If he so wishes, he can return these Homunculi to his being by turning their Philosopher's Stone to liquid and drinking it.
Despite his immense knowledge and understanding of alchemy, he was neither all-knowing or all-powerful. There were certain times when he met failure with his experiments, such as the creation of Glutonny, or were surprised by properties of the Philosopher's Stone itself. His ultimate quest to attain more knowledge was proof that there was still much that even he did not know.
Father's true form revealed.
During his battle with Hohenheim, Hohenheim gains the upper hand in the battle. However, after Father casts aside his "second form" husk and reveals his true form - which has evolved to be able to exist outside of his container - an unseen battle takes place between him and Hohenheim resulting in Father's victory. In this form, Father is shown to have a strange, almost liquid-like body structure somewhat resembling his ancient flask form. He is able to use alchemy to reshape his own body for any situation. The most common shape he took was that of a slightly obese humanoid with eyes with red irises adorning his black body and a wide grin on his otherwise nonexistent face.
Father takes on a form identical to Pride
While in this form, Father can take on a form identical to his son Pride's, though without the need for a container. Unlike the solid shadows Pride is made of, Father is more liquid state, or mushy; Greed attempted to bash him, but Father turned into a puddle and simply reformed further away.
Father takes on a giant form
When Father absorbs around fifty-million souls from the people of Amestris, this form changes to become a giant cyclopean being. Though Father previously cryptically implied that this was his true form all along (though previously much smaller, only encapsulating Father's room) to discourage his sacrifices from escaping. This form is much thinner, showing what looks like a rib cage, a more muscular body, the multitude of eyes and wide grins that were on his previous form are gone, and he now has one large, bulging eye on his forehead.
Father's fourth form, containing a "miniature sun within his hand".
Father's fourth form looks much like a younger version of Hohenheim. Also, despite looking so young, he keeps the voice of his second form. Due to the sacrifices, Father managed to absorb the entity beyond the gate and now has the "power of God" within him with the Amestrian souls he absorbed keeping it in check, making him the "perfect being". He can now almost completely defy natural order (or, in Father's words, "do anything"). He is shown to perform feats far beyond any other alchemist in the series, able to manipulate the weather, enact multiple complex transmutations simultaneously, and create any force at any magnitude.
He retains his fourth form and the powers that go with it even after having lost the Amestrians' souls, but as he lacks the strength to keep "God" inside his new body, the new power is too much of a strain on him, and as of chapter 107, it renders him vulnerable to a counterattack. Reflecting this, Father's appearance deteriorates as the fight goes on: his skin and hair losing their color, pronounced veins appearing across his body, and eventually his face losing almost all human resemblance. He initially has a sort of "force field" that can protect him without any movement on his part, but he is eventually unable to maintain it after losing too much control.
Chapter 106 also revealed that Father now has the ability to create bodies for the souls inside his Philosopher's Stone. In the manga, these beings are not well-made however, and start to fall apart moments after they were created. Father used this ability to distract his enemies so he could unleash a devastating attack.
However, Father's desire to become God made his powers somewhat of a double edge sword. After having all of his Amestrian souls revoked, Father couldn't activate his invisible shield and use his absorption powers at the same time. What's more, he was so dedicated to his alchemy-based combat style that, once he was reduced a state where he couldn't use his alchemy without losing the "power of God" he had obtained, he virtually had no hand-to-hand combat skills.
In what proves to be his downfall, Father re-absorbs Greed while in this form - gaining the Ultimate Shield ability, which Greed promptly uses to turn Father's body to graphite, allowing Edward to easily defeat him.
While it is never fully explored, the being that would later call itself Father was originally a part of the existence within the Gate. Using the blood of his slave Number 23, the Alchemist to the King of Xerxes managed to contain a small portion of the knowledge and life of the Gate within a flask, capable of existing in the physical realm. Named simply "Dwarf in the Flask" or "Homunculus" by the people of Xerxes, this sentient creature contained a vast amount of knowledge, the most important and influential being the skills that would become standard alchemy.
The Dwarf in the Flask was unable to perform any alchemy of his own. Furthermore, though the flask was the only thing that keeps him alive, Homunculus desired to exist outside it. To that end, he befriended Slave 23 out of similar circumstances as slaves to their respective plights, in turn naming the lad Van Hohenheim and educating him to win his freedom as an act of thanks for his hand in creating him.
However, Homunculus grew envious of the human race, jealous of their mutual emotional support for each other whilst he grew lonely, being only one of his kind. Losing sight of his own unique, supreme, and special gifts and talents, Homunculus lost much of his self-confidence, and this low self-esteem caused him to fill himself up with hubris and a desire to become a being superior to even God himself.
Years later, the King of Xerxes (who, like Father, has become vain and hubristic) finally revealed the use for Homunculus; he wanted to call upon him to give the secrets of immortality. Homunculus used this opportunity and instructed the king to construct a giant transmutation circle out of the kingdom, creating bloodshed at specific nodes of the circle. He then manipulated the event so he and Hohenheim were standing at the true center of the circle, so once it was activated, every soul in Xerxes besides himself and Hohenheim were sacrificed to make what was possibly the first Philosopher's Stone ever created.
Homunculus used this power to open the Gate of Truth and created new, immortal bodies for himself and Hohenheim, living embodiments of the Philosopher's Stone with the hundreds of thousands of souls of Xerxes people split between them as their power. Horrified at his role as an unwilling partner in this horrific act, Hohenheim parted ways with Homunculus.
Amestrian alchemy's source of power.
After the destruction of Xerxes, Homunculus made his way to find another inhabited place. Finding such a patch of land, he took the small group of people thriving there and taught them alchemy, becoming known as the "Philosopher of the East". However, to ensure his teachings would not be used against him, he placed himself under what would become Central Command and used himself as a buffer against tectonic energy so alchemists would actually use energy derived from the souls of Xerxes contained within himself. At some point, he began using those same souls to create his Homunculi offspring and accordingly started going by the name "Father".
From this point, the people formed the powerful military state of Amestris, a puppet government secretly run by Father. Amestris begins to rise in power and annexes all nearby land, eventually branching out to form yet another giant transmutation circle, with all skirmishes and bloodshed involving the Amestrian military taking place at the important nodes of the circle. While Father's scheme was to repeat his actions at Xerxes to create another Philosopher's Stone, he now requires an eclipse to become a "perfect being", ("the sun symbolizes a man, and the moon symbolizes a woman, when they come together they become a perfect being" -Edward Elric) and five alchemists that had opened the Gate as human sacrifices.
Throughout the first half of the story, Father is mostly seen sitting on a stone throne with many pipes leading into it. He is properly introduced when Wrath captures Greed and brings him to Father's underground lair. After his offer to the Homunculus was turned down, Father had Greed boiled in a tub of liquid which decomposes his body into his core Philosopher's Stone. The Stone, now in a liquid state and containing Greed's soul, is then consumed by Father.
Father's full identity is revealed when Gluttony brings Alphonse into the Homunculi's lair, prior to Gluttony's body tearing apart as Envy, Edward and Ling Yao emerge from Gluttony's stomach. When the Elrics recognize his face, Father admits his amazement that Edward and Alphonse are Hohenheim's children, before healing Edward's wounds and restoring Alphonse's missing arm. Having no use for Ling, however, Father orders Gluttony and Envy to kill him. Edward pleads for him to spare Ling, but Father makes it clear that he does not care for anyone not a part of his plan. Edward and Alphonse use their alchemy to attack Father, with no avail; Father is entirely unharmed by their attacks before he merely stomps his foot to seal off all alchemy in Central.
However, entering Father's lair at the same moment, Scar and May Chang astonish Father with their own counterattacks, unaffected by his alchemic lock-out with their own unique forms of alchemy. However, even point-blank, Scar's alchemy is unable to harm Father. Scar and May are overwhelmed while Envy captures the Elrics. Meanwhile, Father too easily defeats Ling and then takes the liquefied stone, in which Greed is contained, and merges it with Ling, stating that he could have use for another pawn after all. Ling then becomes the new Greed and Father has the Elrics taken to the surface before tending to the injured Gluttony. From there on, Father is mostly seen sitting on his throne, musing over his plan and conversing with the military high command.
Father prepares to swallow "God".
When the Promised Day begins, Edward, Hohenheim, Scar, Lan Fan and the Chimera invaded his lair with plans to kill him for good by destroying his shell. However, only Hohenheim manages to reach him as the two do battle. But when it seems Father has won when he manages to stab Hohenheim, he learns all too late that Hohenheim managed to work with the souls within his Philosopher's Stone, some of which destroy his shell from the inside. Unfortunately, Father reveals to Hohenheim how far he has evolved since they parted ways, emerging from his shell and eating it with the Philosopher's Stones it still contained, before restarting the fight. He defeats Hohenheim, restraining him with his body and later greets Izumi and the Elric brothers, who didn't recognize him at first. Soon after, Pride arrives with a blinded Colonel Mustang, giving Father his fifth and final human sacrifice.
Despite the alchemists' refusal to aid him, and Greed's attempt on his life, Father defeats his attackers and proceeds to finally activate the Nationwide Transmutation Circle around Amestris, using the restrained sacrifices' gates to access the Earth's gate while absorbing all of the Amestrians' souls. From there, in his full form, Father tears open the Gate of Truth with his bare hands; absorbing the higher power he calls "God". Once the transmutation process is completed, in a new youthful body, Father states to the alchemists how he "imprisoned God" within his body and possesses all the knowledge and power of "God". No longer needing sacrifices, Father cancels Alchemy once more and prepares to dispose of the five sacrifices, as well as Greed and May, at his whim by creating a miniature sun in the palm of his hand.
However, Hohenheim reveals his own plan: all the Xersesians souls that Hohenheim separated from his body and merged with the earth itself, using the moon's shadow as a circle, force Father to release the Amestrian souls and guide them back to their own bodies. Without the Amestrian souls, Father begins to lose control of "God" and his body becomes riddled with pronounced veins due to the strain. Furious, Father claims that he can always create another Philosopher's Stone using a hundred million or even a billion lives, because there are always more humans that he can draw energy from and he attacks the group with formidable blasts of explosions, that Hohenheim manages to block. Not letting up, Father launches a wave of energy at his human foes, but May transmutes an alkahestric barrier around them all, declaring that her craft's specialty is harnessing the flow of energy within the earth and that, the more energy is thrown at her, the more she is able to use. However, when Father fires another volley, Hohenheim moves quickly to block it with his hands, which burn and crumble as it becomes apparent that he hasn't the energy necessary to compete with Father. As he begins to fall back, Ed and Al rush to his aid, holding him up so that he might keep up the fight and their grateful father redoubles his efforts, straining his Philosopher's Stone. Luckily, Scar activates the Alkahestric reverse-Nationwide Transmutation Circle, which nullifies Father's "buffer" and grants true alchemy to Amestrians. Ed, Al and Izumi continue their assault on Father and Hohenheim explains that they can win if they can force the Homunculus to use up all the energy of his Philosopher's Stone. Greed emerges from the shadows to help the fight, but Father merely deflects all of their attacks and ascends toward the surface. Knowing that fighting the alchemists would only further weaken his ability to contain "God" within him, Father takes to the surface of Central Command to claim the souls of the nearby Briggs soldiers and replenish his stone, but an attack from Hohenheim makes him lose concentration.
Now surrounded by Hohenheim, Izumi, Alphonse, and May, Father is asked by Hohenheim the reason why he hates humans by pointing out his origins and the reason that the Homunculi exist is because of Philosopher Stones, which are made from human souls. Hohenheim asserts that Father is only capable of destruction and his evolution has reached a dead end. Father replies that he can create and proves Hohenheim wrong by resurrecting the Xerxesians with his body. As the alchemists recoil in horror as the Xerxesians wander about, grateful to have returned to the world of the living, Edward finally makes his way to the surface. Seeing him, Father grins and releases another energy blast which wipes out both the recreated Xerxesians and most of Central Command. However, Al and Hohenheim managed to shield everyone at great expanse to their physical beings. Ed looks at the scorched body of his father and calls out to him, but as Hohenheim opens his eyes, Father appears behind him and swats him aside. Deciding on Izumi and Edward as his first targets, Father attempts to draw out their souls into a Philosopher's Stone, but is interrupted when the military joins the fray with the blind Mustang, along with Lt. Riza Hawkeye supporting him, and Major Alex Louis Armstrong spearheading the attack.
The Briggs soldiers, pouring out from Central Command, open fire on him with rifles, rockets and machine guns, giving the alchemists time to get to safety. Father merely shrugs these attacks off, shielding himself with an impenetrable barrier of alchemical energy, but the soldiers are ordered to stand clear as a deluge of flame washes over their inhuman foe; though Father is unharmed by the attack, Colonel Mustang, Major Armstrong and Lieutenant Hawkeye have appeared on the scene. Hawkeye informs the blind Flame Alchemist that his aim was off and gives him targeting directions for his next massive salvo. As he claps his hands together to compensate for the damage done to his Flame Alchemy gloves, Roy remarks that he hasn't yet gotten the hang of circle-free transmutation and attacks Father with flames again, but Father simply absorbs the flames and reflects them back at Mustang. With a warning from Hawkeye, Mustang rapidly transmutes a wall to defend against Father's counterattack and finds the clapping to be useful. Unfortunately, even with everyone working together, Father remains unharmed and declares that the humans are incapable of penetrating his defenses. Suddenly, Greed bursts from the cloud of dust and gun smoke and delivers a punch right to his father's face, exclaiming that a Homunculus might succeed where humans have failed, but as Father takes hold of Greed's hand, he thanks his son for delivering a complete Philosopher's Stone to him when he needed it most and begins draining Philosopher's Stone energy from his body. However, Greed counters that he knew Father would drop his guard in order to absorb a Stone and explains that his own plan is to drain god energy instead. Greed begins draining energy from his father's body, but the Homunculus leader's pull is too strong and he reverses the flow. Seeing their comrade in danger, Edward, Alex and Izumi rush to Greed's aid, throwing a volley of physical attacks. Overwhelmed by the multiple onslaught, Father pushes them all back with a wave of energy, shattering Edward's automail arm in the process, but the alchemists remain unfazed and commence a second wave. But when Father blocks a kick from Edward with his arm instead of energy, Hohenheim realizes that the Homunculus is at his breaking point and can barely keep God contained within his body. Bulging and writing in agony as God's eye rises from his gullet and into his mouth, threatening to escape, Father topples to the ground and releases a huge burst of energy which throws everyone from his body.
Just managing to keep God within his form, Father searches desperately for a soul to make into a Philosopher's Stone and sees the nearby Edward sprawled on a pile of broken concrete and desperately moves to take Fullmetal's soul to replenish his stone supply. Ed, seeing the danger as Father approaches him, attempts to scurry to safety, but finds that his left arm has been impaled on some twisted rebar jutting out of the rubble, pinning him to the spot. Ed, however, is saved by Al, who uses May's help to sacrifice himself in exchange for the return of Ed's original right arm. A distraught Edward calls Alphonse an idiot before releasing himself from his pinned state and beginning a furious barrage of attacks against Father, greatly depleting Father's stone.
A confrontation between two individuals born from the same man.
On the verge of defeat, Father reels in shock at being bested by a mere human. Another stunning blow from Ed knocks the Homunculus down for the count, but when the god energy makes another attempt to escape, Father sucks it up, rises to his feet and lunges desperately at Greed to take his Philosopher's Stone from Ling's body. As he plunges his arm inside his son's stomach and begins draining his Stone away, Ling's consciousness grabs hold of Greed inside their shared body, refusing to let him go, but as Greed states, Father's pull is stronger and any continued struggle will only result in Ling's soul being pulled into Father as well. When Ling asserts that he needs Greed's power in order to become Emperor of Xing, Greed claims to accept partnering with the prince for the throne, but knocks him away at the last second, resigning himself to his father's summons. As the avaricious Homunculus declares that this was the only lie he has ever told, he informs Ling that he can still become emperor, as Lan Fan holds the Philosopher's Stone that she took from Wrath's pocket. Drawing out his son's Stone, Father's arm turns slowly gray as he absorbs Greed's carbon armor ability, but with his last moments in the prince's body, Greed summons Lan Fan to his side and she slices off Father's arm with a simple swipe of her kunai. Ling collapses to the ground, restored to complete humanity as the Ouroboros on his hand fades away, while Father howls piteously at his own son's treachery. Though his entire body slowly morphs to carbon via Greed's power, the avaricious Homunculus explains from inside that he has used his armor ability to transform Father's anatomy to one comprised of the weakest, most fragile form of carbon imaginable and his entire being begins to crumble under its own weight. Enraged that his own son would rebel against him to the end, Father destroys Greed's soul. However, ensuring Greed's death was not in vain, Edward uses this opportunity to punch a hole through Father's chest, through which the remaining Xerxesian Souls of his Philosopher's Stone escape. With no power or souls left to contain "God" or to sustain his physical existence, Father is horrified as "God" emerges from his body and grabs him. Father laments the harshness of reality, crying out that he does not understand why reality does not permit him to get his greatest desires, and why freedom seems so impossible to achieve; soon his body disintegrates.
The Dwarf in the Flask is finally banished to whence he came.
Father, now in his original form, appears before the Gate and asks God why he was not accepted as its vessel, and gets a reply: "It's because you did not believe in yourself." When Father searches for the origin of the voice, encountering the Truth, yet unaware of Truth's identity as it berates Father for trying to take the power of someone greater than him. Father claims that he wanted all the knowledge in the world and that he wanted to know what God knew. He then goes on to ask what was wrong with wanting, wishing and chasing your desires, showing the humanity he tried to purge himself of. Truth mocks him, saying that taking the power of God didn't make him God, but rather a cunning thief. Demanding to know who he is speaking to, Father is horrified when Truth formally introduces itself and states itself as the Truth as he defines it: giving despair to discourage one from becoming boastful and proud. Truth tells Father that he'll receive his most fitting despair as the Gates open up and hands appear to grab Father. Father begins crying as he desperately asks what he did wrong to deserve this and where he went wrong, showing the flaws he tried to purge himself of. Ultimately, stripped of the freedom he cherished, Father is sucked into the Gate and once again becomes part of the endless abyss within.
Father's relationship with his so-called "children" was relatively cold and uncaring. He never showed any form of affection or real emotion to any of them, only addressing them in his calm, if not bored, tone. As their creator, he expected undying loyalty from the Homunculi and did not hesitate to melt the first Greed (though he did ask to rejoin him) into a Philosopher's Stone as punishment for betraying him. Even though the Homunculi were on a whole completely obedient and loyal to him, he did not have much particular allegience to them in return. When Pride was vulnerable from weakening his own Philosopher's Stone, Father paid him little mind and chose to abandon him. Still, Hohenheim noted that Father at the very least attempted to have a sort of familial connection with the Homunculi, as he had them call him their father and he even referred to them as his children.
Father and Hohenheim initially had a very friendly relationship. Father served as a partner, mentor, friend to Hohenheim and was instrumental in raising him up from his status as a slave. Father claimed he did so in thanks due to being born of Hohenheim's blood, which he gave the additional gift of Hohenheim's name and immortality. After the events of Xerxes however, the two would become bitter enemies, with Hohenheim dedicating his life to stopping Father's plans and Father in return regarding Hohenheim as little more than another human sacrifice and another source of Philosopher Stones. While Father treated his former partner with contempt and relative disinterest, Hohenheim's feelings were more akin to pity, claiming that Father's desire to be a perfect being hid his true desire to be more like humans.
Father makes a brief cameo in episode 2, when Edward is reading a book about the Philosopher's Stone.
