Greed is the embodiment of some of Father's greed. He is called the "Ultimate Shield" because he can rearrange the carbon in his body to make his skin as hard as diamond, thus making him impenetrable by most weapons. As his name implies, he is a very avaricious character, who likes living in luxury, surrounded by powerful minions and beautiful women. He also has a habit of flipping people off in the manga. Despite his generally greedy nature, he is shown to care for his subordinates, as detailed below.
In his original body, Greed resembled a tall and muscular young adult with short, spiky, black hair that is kept slicked back. He also had a subtle widow's peak. Among his most noticeable features were Greed's purple eyes with thin, cat-like pupils, and razor-sharp teeth. He often smiled with a huge grin. Greed dresses in leather, sporting a short, black jacket with a fur collar, black leather pants, and shoes with upward tips. Beneath his jacket, Greed wears a skintight shirt similar to the clothes worn by his homunculus siblings. Around each of his wrists, Greed wore four black leather wrist belts with metal claps, that seem to disappear when he goes full shield, and when he's regenerating his arm. He briefly wore a pair of sunglasses with round lenses.
While possessing Ling Yao, Greed looks exactly like Ling, but with slit pupils, purple irises, and he kept his eyes opened in the same manner as his previous body. When possessed Ling's bangs are also moved to the other side of his forehead.
In his "Ultimate Shield" form, Greed has dark blue skin, razor-sharp finger nails, and a pronounced spinal column, while his ears and hair disappear beneath his blue skin. The sclera of both eyes become red, while his irises turn white. In this form, Greed's sharp teeth become more pronounced, with two lower fangs rising just above his upper lip. His overall facial features are a reflection of his inner self, which takes the form of a red devil's head with skull-like features, notably: fangs and slit eyes.
His Ouroboros tattoo is located on the back of his left hand in both incarnations.
Greed, as his name implies, is filled with and motivated by his avaricious nature. It could be said that the reason why he wanted all that life has to offer was because Greed didn't know exactly what he wanted from it, which fuels his desire to have it all. He is the only homunculus to defy Father, and the only one to openly taunt him. He has an easygoing, charismatic, arrogant personality and tends to do what he wants. He is also somewhat narcissistic, claiming part of the reason he doesn't use his ultimate shield to his fullest extent is because it masks his attractive face. He claims to not hurt women and (to an extent) children. In addition, he states he never lies (though he tells only one lie in order to save Ling's life). While he normally possesses a calm, confident nature, when angered he can be rather impulsive and ready to go into a fight with those he feels have wronged him. However, he shows some capacity for adapting to his fights and is willing to protect his allies (and later innocent civilians). On a side note, he seems very charismatic and has shown good leadership skills, first with his chimera friends and later with Edward, Darius, and Heinkel, which he attributes to how he earns and deserve their loyalty in the first place. In addition, while he seems to see humans as weak and powerless, he never had sociopath tendencies or even hatred towards humans the way the other homunculi did. In the end, he even grows to respect their power and tenacity.
After being killed and reborn, he initially had no memories of his former life. He retained his mocking arrogant, easygoing personality but initially had a complete loyalty to Father, faithfully doing his job. However, after killing one of his surviving friends, Bido, he remembers his past and develops a grudge against Wrath for what he had done. He also slowly develops a bond with Ling, whose body he shares and whose greed nearly matches his, and the prince helps him realize what he truly desires. He does get annoyed when Ling tries to take over his body, especially without his permission, though the two manage to work together well as a team. He also bonds with Edward, despite getting into fights with him.
However, deep down Greed wants nothing more than true friends who cared for him and for whom he cared for, though given his personality he often cloaks this by calling his friends and henchmen "possessions". 
Being a living incarnation of avarice, Greed understands its nature better than anyone else, though Ed warns him that wanting too much can have dangerous results, just like what happens to people who attempt human transmutation. However, Greed countered by explaining that avarice is not about just money and power; no matter how noble or selfless someone is, everybody desires something they don't have.
As a homunculus, Greed possessed the standard physical and regenerative abilities of his brethren. Provided his internal Philosopher's Stone had enough energy, Greed would not age beyond his youthful prime and could heal from any injury no matter how severe. Combined with his Ultimate Shield, this made him almost completely immune to harm. However, his defensive abilities led him to be extremely reliant on his Ultimate Shield and regenerative abilities in combat situations and was only an average fighter as a result.
Greed can convert his skin into hard but still prehensile graphene, leaving everything else underneath malleable so as not to compromise his overall movement. He usually uses this ability to partially strengthen the density of selected parts of his body during battle, but can extend the effect to its entirety.
In this form, he resembles a demon with a malevolent facial visage. His finger nails become razor sharp while under this form, capable of slicing through rock and metal alike with little effort. Because Greed has control over the configuration of his body's carbon atoms, the substances that he can convert his skin into can vary based on his intentions. He can choose to convert his body into the indestructible substance, or he can turn his skin into weak graphite.
While in its Ultimate Shield form, Greed's body is completely indestructible and possesses absolutely no internal or external weakness. This defense has not been shown to be breached by any attack, regardless of types, magnitude and directions; thus, he is immune to any/all kind of damage, and his indestructible body does not hinder his speed or mobility. His "shield" is so strong that he was able to take Father's nuclear-level attack at point-blank without harm.
Even with this apparent invincibility, his shield still has physical properties and is thus susceptible to alchemy. Skilled alchemists can transmute his skin from graphene to graphite, which allows for his shield to be breached with excessive force. Another disadvantage of Greed's is that he cannot harden his skin and regenerate simultaneously. During their fight together, Wrath constantly dismembered and sliced Greed. Before hardening his skin, his intervals of regeneration left Greed open for more of Wrath's sword attacks.
Although Greed had an overwhelming advantage when fully armored, he preferred to use his Ultimate Shield to form claws covering up to his shoulders (thereby summoning makeshift weapons at will), leaving much of his body vulnerable to attack (only using his shield on other areas to protect them from attack temporarily, as seen when Wrath attempts to slice Greed's head off with his sword only to have it broken in two by Greed's shield). He claimed to dislike his fully armored form because it "covered his handsome face", though it was implied that this form required more power and wasn't an ability that he used lightly.
Greed possesses a magnetic quality that allows him to easily make loyal allies/friends with anyone. While he cannot directly override others' will and values, his persuasive abilities are so powerful he can convince others of anything remotely believable. Due to his immense charisma and eloquence, he was able to form many loyal friendships and partnerships, as well as becoming an effective and respected leader.
After his integration into Ling's body, Greed was able to share his physical abilities and incredible martial arts skills. Whereas before he was completely overwhelmed by Wrath's speed and strength, as Ling, Greed was able to match him on multiple occasions.
While Ling and Greed shared a body, it seemed that there were some abilities that were exclusive to one or the other, depending on who was in control. Ling could not utilize the full potential of Greed's Ultimate Shield without requesting more power from Greed. Meanwhile, Greed could not use Ling's ability to sense chi, a helpful ability to remotely sense other's locations in low visibility. The two of them were most effective when working together, switching control to best suit the situation, though due to their constant struggle over control, express cooperation was a seldom occurance. Greed feared that Ling would simply "run off with his body", so he only willingly allowed Ling control during emergencies.
