A Homunculus refers to the medieval legendary concept of an artificially created human, presumably brought into existence by certain means of Alchemy. In the series the official definition of a Homunculus is "Any human that was created or re-created by any Alchemy, Alkahestry, Grand Arcanum, and any other form of Alchemy."
Though it is a concept known of by many Alchemists in Amestris, the idea of the Homunculus is typically regarded as no more than a farce or faraway fantasy as no individual or group of alchemists has come anywhere close to successfully creating such a being in officially recorded history. Even so, alchemists have been forbidden by the Amestrian government to attempt or research the transmutation of humans and State Alchemists have such a restriction as part of their creed.
However, off the official record, not only one but several of these creatures have been created in arcane, sinister secrecy. In the most relevant sense of the word, "Homunculus" refers to the eight individuals who make up the primary antagonistic force of the Fullmetal Alchemist series. The Homunculi created by Father (with the sole exception of Pride) carry the mark of the Ouroboros upon their bodies and are identified as such by said mark.
The seven key Homunculi created in the series are referred to as the "Sins".
The first seven Homunculi created by Father.
The central antagonist is the original Homunculus known simply as Father, who was created several hundred years before the start of the series in the presently non-existent nation of Xerxes. The other seven Homunculi are tangible embodiments of his vices of human nature, and therefore were originally parts of himself. He did this in an effort to become the perfect being by attempting to purge himself of the seven "sins" which he believed make humans imperfect. The souls of the seven Homunculus (Lust, Envy, Gluttony, Greed, Sloth and Pride) were created when Father purged his immortal soul of these seven desires that he believed prevented him from becoming a superior being to mankind.
In Xerxes, Father used half of the country's population to create his "container", which was in reality is a pale copy of Van Hohenheim's form made. Hohenheim (originally known only as Slave Number 23) was a former slave turned brilliant Alchemist whose blood was originally used to create Father (back then referred to simply as "The Dwarf in the Flask") by the Xerxesian king's chief Alchemist during an experiment. By using the souls from the population of Xerxes, Father himself became a sort of living Philosopher's Stone and thus gained an immortal body, as well as the ability to create other Homunculi like himself by dividing those same souls to create other Philosopher's Stones.
The Homunculi were created by injecting a Philosopher's Stone (containing some of the souls of Xerxes and one of Father's seven vices) broken off from Father's own Philosopher's Stone, into the body of a living being. Five of the Homunculi are based on (and have exactly the same composition as) humans, which were either artificial bodies transmuted from Father or naturally occurring humans; Envy is based on a disturbing leviathan creature created by Father; and Pride is created from Father's own essence, being, and image.
Some Homunculi, upon having their Philosopher's Stone cores almost completely depleted, transform into their "true form", a physical amalgam of their deepest, innermost, pure, and true desires and wishes. All Homunculi (with the exception of Wrath) dissolve to dust whenever they reach their true death.
A secondary method of creating a homunculi is by injecting a Philosopher's Stone directly into the bloodstream of a human host. Due to the extremely volatile and powerful nature of the stone, the human body naturally rejects the foreign element, typically resulting in the host's death, wherein the Philosopher's Stone can be recollected.
If the host body survives the integration, the surviving host gains the subsequent power of a Homunculus. However, the original host body usually loses control of their body, with the personality of the new Homunculus taking control if the host is not strong enough.
For the most part, the Homunculi were visually indistinguishable from humans and could easily disguise themselves in human society. Homunculi are also said to be biologically incapable of reproducing.[citation needed] Among the Homunculi were a fair amount of similar physical traits such as dark hair, purple eyes, and distinctive red nodes throughout their bodies (although there were Homunculi that did not have these traits). While human-looking at first, some of the Homunculi possessed "true forms" that bared no resemblance to humans and had little in common with each other, taking on unique appearances to each individual. On each Homunculi apart from Pride was the Ouroboros mark. Although they were commonly referred to as tattoos, they were more supernatural in nature, simply appearing on the bodies of the Homunculi upon creation as if a birthmark.
As they were comprised of immense energy sources from the Philosopher's Stone, the Homunculi did not age and possessed incredible physical abilities. Though individual qualities differed between specific Homunculi, they were generally faster, stronger, and more agile than humans. Most of all was their immense healing abilities. Incapable of death as long as their Philosopher's Stone still had souls, the Homunculi could heal from any injury no matter how severe within seconds. Even the destruction of their entire bodies could not kill them, as they would always regenerate from the core that was their Philosopher's Stone. Still, although they appeared to be unkillable, they were not immortal. They could only heal so long as their internal stone supplied them energy and once their stone was depleted, they could be killed. Homunculi did bleed, but any part of their body such as blood or severed limbs (and eventually their bodies upon death) would fade away into dust, similar to the destruction of a Philosopher's Stone. The Homunculi were never shown to eat, drink, or sleep and presumably did not need to (although Sloth did imply that they were still capable of sleep).[citation needed]
Aside from the primary emotion/desire they embody, Homunculi generally possess the belief that they are superior to every other living thing, including humans. This is the psychological effect of them being born with immense strengths. Many of the Homunculi even have ill feelings towards humans. Out of the Homunculi, the sadistic Envy is the one who hates and treats them the most personally and with utmost bitterness, while Pride has the evilest malice, disdain, discrimination, prejudice and contempt towards humans. Greed is the only Homunculus that does not truly hate humans in any respect, although it is unclear what he really thought of them before being bonded with Ling Yao, but he instead desired friends among them due to wanting everything out of life, including true happiness.
The lesser Homunculi swarming over a victim.
In Chapter 80, it is revealed that the Amestrian government, presumably under the supervision of Father, has created an army of lesser Homunculi whose soulless bodies are stored beneath Central Command. They are then injected with Philosopher's Stones, giving them life. These "Mannequin Soldier" Homunculi are white and red, skeletally thin, hairless humanoids with one eye in their foreheads and green "blood". They lack intelligence and appear only to follow base instincts toward feeding and destruction, similar to the souls within the Philosopher's Stones who have long since forgotten their true identities. Envy at one point describes them as mere puppets injected with Philosopher's Stones. Their main attack is to try to eat their victim, since they lack the thoughts of doing much else. Envy also uses their bodies and their souls to recreate his original body after being reduced to a small parasite from having his own Philosopher's Stone drained. They do not regenerate as Father's children do, but are able to keep functioning even if their heads are grievously damaged. They seem to make similar vocalizations to the souls of the people of Xerxes trapped in Envy (crying out for help or relations and complaining that they are in pain), but they seem to want to get rid of their 'pain' by eating everything except each other.
They are awakened in Chapter 90 by one of the generals of Central Command in an attempt to quell the insurrection going on in the city. For this foolish act, he is devoured by the monsters, who have no sense of loyalty or authority. From there, these Mannequin Soldiers begin to spread about the Central Command grounds, devouring anyone they come across. Major General Armstrong manages to remove several of them as a threat by severing their heads, at least at the upper jaw, leaving them mobile, but unable to eat anyone. Colonel Roy Mustang devises his own method of incapacitating them by burning off their legs with Flame Alchemy (in the 2009 anime version, he instead incinerates them completely to ash).
Because of the divergence in plotline in the 2003 anime, the origins, identities, and secrets of Homunculi differ from those of the manga and second television series.
In the 2003 anime, Homunculi are said to be created each time an alchemist attempts a Human Transmutation. While the transmutation itself will result in a failure in that the person intended to be revived does not return as expected, a new existence is brought about. The result of the failed Human Transmutation will be a grotesque, vaguely humanoid monstrosity retaining the genetic material, as well as some of the memory, of the resurrected. The "failed" Homunculus generally remains in this agonizing state until it dies soon after. However, newly created Homunculi who come into contact with Red Stones—much weaker versions of the Philosopher's Stone created by condensing human souls—and consume large amounts of them will have their bodies reshaped into their intended forms and become exact physical replicas of the people they were meant to replace.
The English dub of the anime goes so far as to state that Homunculi aren't failed human transmutations, but that they are simply incomplete.
Homunculi all carry the form of human beings, albeit some of them with exaggerated features. Some of them have cat-like slits for pupils, pointed teeth, pale skin, and each are marked with an Ouroboros tattoo somewhere on their body. The placement of their tattoo is often in accordance with the sin they represent (Greed's is on his hand, Gluttony's on his tongue, King Bradley's is on his eye underneath the eyepatch, and Lust's is right above her cleavage).
Although they are shown to eat, drink and sleep, it is not necessary that they do so in order to survive; they need only the energy provided them by the red stones they have consumed. It is likely the red "nodes" that Homunculi have across their limbs circulate this seemingly endless energy.[citation needed] Just like their manga/2009 counterparts, Homunculi are also biologically infertile and unable to bear offspring despite carrying human forms.[citation needed]
Despite being replicate humans, however, Homunculi are still aberrations of nature created by violating the laws of the natural universe, and as such, have no souls. This property gives them many physical dissimilarities to ensouled humans:
Homunculi in the 2003 series are depicted as amoral, cruel, and sadistic. They derive pleasure from witnessing and inflicting suffering and death. Throughout the majority of the series, the Homunculi are portrayed as clearly evil creatures, but toward the end of the series' run, they are each revealed to be very layered, complex individuals capable of love, grief, guilt, and despair.
Despite their manipulation and abuse of the human race, several of them desire to become fully human. When pressed by Edward as to why she would want to be human, Lust compares their state of existence with that of Alphonse's.
While Lust desires to ultimately become the person she was meant to replace, Sloth and Wrath both despise their makers for their creation. Sloth is tormented by her memories as Edward and Alphonse's mother and desires to murder them. She thinks this will prove to herself that she is not their mother, while making it so she no longer has to think about them. She hates Ed for creating her as an abomination incapable of familial connections (despite seemingly having one in Wrath). Wrath, on the other hand, feels cast aside as a monster by Izumi, and wishes he had a loving mother.
Although he doesn't want to be human, Envy is similar to Wrath in that he feels rejected and cast aside by Hohenheim, who is both the father of the person Envy was meant to be and the alchemist who created him. In the end, Envy finally gets his opportunity for revenge against his maker, and even knowing that he would be transmuting himself in the process, he exacts it with a grunt of satisfaction. It is also worth noting that in Laboratory 5, Envy assaults Edward for saying that Homunculi were "made" instead of "born", offering evidence that despite his claims that Homunculi are superior to humans, he may still harbor some resentment for his own nature.
Pride is interesting in that he does not seem to care that he is a Homunculus. His compensation seems to come from being the most powerful person in the country, even if it is a façade, although it is possible that he genuinely believes in his position. He derives pleasure in instigating hostilities, and even though he is shown to have an interest in creating the stone, it seems simply to be because it is what Dante wants. Although the personality he presents to his citizens is one of a benevolent, charming family-man who values human life, he actually has no respect for humans. Pride's final moments sees him murder his ten-year-old adopted son after having unintentionally brought the Homunculus' weakness to the battle with Mustang, despite having saved it from fire and being told: "his (father's) life depended on it." Despite not revealing the implications of "his treasure" (the skull belonging to his original human remains) Pride believed it was solely his son's and humankind's innate "foolishness" that brought about his undoing.
All in all, the mental states of the Homunculi whose characters are explored are very much centered around the fact that they are not accepted as human by one or more groups (including themselves), which is probably why Greed bonds so strongly with his fellow outcasts, the chimera. It is also worth noting that despite being the scourge of the Homunculi, Greed is probably the most psychologically stable of them all. He knows what he is and has no desire to change (though is in denial about his prior love for Dante, in his past life). If anything, he wants to become less human, proven by his scheme to bond his spirit to an inanimate object to escape further persecution from Dante and the others. He fully embraces his greed and lives life on his own terms, having no goals apart from hedonistic desire and true immortality. He also dies on his own terms, at the hands of someone he respects, while at the same time giving that person what he needs—information on how to kill Homunculi and the resolve to do it—to exact his retribution against his persecutors.
As the Homunculi all retain partial identities of their past human selves, as well as their current Homunculus "selves" they all suffer from some degree of psychotic behavior. This "hidden weakness" leads to Dante's faction almost completely imploding by the series' end, contributing greatly to her defeat. When all is said and done, out of the seven Homunculi, only Pride and Sloth fight to the death. Greed was never controllable, while Lust eventually defected to the Elrics, having distrust in Dante. Wrath and Gluttony are so interdependent upon Sloth and Lust respectively that when the latter two are killed, the former two suffer a total emotional collapse, causing them to become liabilities rather than assets. Even Envy, who appears relatively mentally stable at the time, abandons Dante and throws himself through the Gate in a desperate final attempt at exacting his revenge on Hohenheim, again a product of his past human identity.
Killing Homunculi in the 2003 series can be done in a variety of different ways, but the task is still a challenge due to the difficulty in dealing with such deadly and unpredictable creatures. Furthermore, the fact they are "mythical" creatures shrouds the means in mystery until Greed reveals all before dying himself. Once the means are discovered, it is often necessary to take advantage of more than one of their weaknesses in order to kill them, the most important of which is the remains of the person they were meant to be, which are not always available. Wrath himself is not susceptible to this weakness because his remains no longer exist, however, he expresses terror over the Gate and was briefly paralyzed by the sound of a baby's cries. In a similar manner to the manga version, Lust explains that the depletion of their red stones can kill them when attempting to kill Wrath after he boasted about his seeming immortality. An example of this can be seen with Mustang, though while needing to take advantage of Pride's weakness, only managed to actually kill Pride for good by burning him alive until his red stones were used up.
When Homunculi die, their bodies liquefy into a red ooze which quickly dissolves into the ground, leaving no trace that they ever existed. The original skeletal remains of the human they're based on simultaneously crumble into fine dust.
The Homunculi are very versatile, capable beings, a fact that Dante takes every advantage of. She initially creates Gluttony in an attempt to discover a method to create the Philosopher's Stone without using alchemy. He ends up a failure in that respect, but her experiments do seem to convince her that Homunculi can still be of use. She makes at least two more—Greed and Pride—and Envy implies to Lust that if necessary, Dante can very easily create another to serve the cause. She also keeps her eye out for other alchemists who might resort to human transmutation in the hopes that if they do, she might reap the benefits of their folly. Those Homunculi she does recruit are tricked into helping her with the promise that she will make them human once she obtains a stone. Whether it is even possible to turn a Homunculus human with the stone is never clarified, but from what Envy insinuates, Dante has no intention of even trying, and may very well be planning on killing them once she has what she wants.
From behind the scenes, Dante sends her Homunculi to scour the countryside for alchemists with talent enough to create the stone. The Homunculi spread diseases, commit assassinations, tempt the wealthy and the greedy, and use countless other means to push people to the brink of desperation. Those who come close but fail are erased from the world along with the evidence, and rumors are mongered of the dangers of creating the stone, rumors which keep the talentless at bay but draw in the curious and the capable.
After she creates Pride, Dante maneuvers him into the position of Führer-King, and through him, initiates numerous campaigns to wreak havoc and destruction across Amestris and beyond, and to oppress the human spirit into a state of desperation and despair. She does this hoping that those driven to extremes will create her stone, which the Homunculi will then happily collect and bring to her.
By the time the series begins, the country is slowly recovering from a civil war instigated by Dante and her underlings. The primary mission of the Homunculi at this point is to continue the relentless search for talented alchemists, which is aided by the military's new State Alchemist program, which recruits only the best and the brightest. This gives Dante and the Homunculi the chance to add further flames to the defeated Ishvalans, who, as legend tells it, have the means to create a stone of their own. Through dozens and dozens of manipulations over the years—including the Ishval Civil War itself, the continued tormenting of the Ishvalan refugees, and the instigated conflict in Reole—the Homunculi finally succeed in driving Scar to create the stone at the cost of his own and several thousand Amestrian soldiers' lives. The situation spirals quickly out of control, with Dante's deceptions reaching light in her frantic attempts to secure the new stone. Learning her true nature, several of the Homunculi revolt or change allegiances, allowing for their previously unseen human natures to be made apparent. As the end of the series approaches, the creatures who had been portrayed as unforgivably malicious are shown to be more human than several of their true human counterparts, even becoming more sympathetic than some of them.
All in all, the Homunculi serve to lay down philosophical questions as to the value of human life, while at the same time challenge the definition of humanity and the limits of tolerance and forgiveness.
