The Gate of Alchemy (also called The Gate of Truth, and most commonly The Gate) is a metaphysical and possibly metaphorical structure. It is the source of alchemical knowledge and the entrance to God's domain, where no mortals are meant to tread.
The Gate is a pair of doors resembling a set of large stone tablets engraved with a mural, floating in an endless white expanse. Though there appears to be nothing behind the doors when they are closed, upon opening, they reveal a dimension of information which manifests as a shadowy void with several shadow-like ethereal hands protruding from it and a single large eye within. The shapeless void and its extremities look very similar to the original forms of both Father and the Homunculus Pride.
Any alchemist who attempts a Human Transmutation is summoned before the Gate by the transmutation's rebound and is confronted briefly by the being known as Truth before the Gate itself pulls them through its doors. Inside, pure knowledge about the world, the universe, alchemy, and everything is forced into the alchemist's mind as they begin to break down both physically and mentally, becoming part of the flow. However, the alchemist is only granted as much knowledge as proportionate to what is being given up as a "toll" through the Gate. For example, Edward Elric, who gave up his left leg, only saw so much, but his brother Alphonse - who had given up his whole body - saw a bit further. It is unknown what happens to those alchemists whose lives are given up, but the Philosopher's Stone appears to be the only thing that would allow one to pass through the Gate without paying a personal toll. If an alchemist survives their passage through the Gate, they are sent back to the mortal plane without whatever they left behind as payment. They also can perform alchemy without needing to draw Transmutation Circles. Rather, their limbs can, when clapped together, serve as the outer circle for the transmutation, and the body of the alchemist itself serves as the matrix.
Though the Gate appears identically to any and all who pass through it, the engravings on the stone doors appear different to each person as a reflection of their true self and to that alchemist's understanding of "The Truth" (all the engravings, in one way or another, are representations of the Universe and the Cosmos). For Edward Elric, who has passed through the Gate no less than four separate times, the mural is a relief of the Sephirothic Tree of Life, which originates from a mystic branch of Judaism known as Kabbalah. Additionally, the mural on Alphonse Elric's Gate is a relief of an illustration from 15th-century alchemist  George Ripley's text "The Marrow of Alchemy". For Roy Mustang, the mural depicts a stylized version of the Flame Alchemy array designed by Berthold Hawkeye. Father's Gate appears to be completely blank, likely because of his inability or unwillingness to learn, change, or grow spiritually during his lifetime. It is unknown what image appeared on the Gate for Izumi Curtis.
While the Gate is able to function as an infinite source of knowledge to those who pass through it, it also serves as a literal gateway between the realm that Truth resides in and the physical world. In the series it is only implied that an alchemist enters this realm through their Gate (they seem to just "appear"), they do not necessarily have to leave through their own gate, as Edward has used his brother's Gate to exit. Mustang theorizes that those who give up their own Gate as a toll without another's Gate to use would be stranded in Truth's realm, unable to go back to the physical world.
In Chapter 51, it is revealed that the Homunculus Gluttony was the result of a failed experiment by Father to create a new Gate of Alchemy through which he could access the whole of alchemical knowledge. As such, the eye that appears in the expanse of Gluttony's stomach (also enlarging his mouth) when he morphs to his true form is nearly identical to that behind the true Gate, but the space within him is pitch black and everything that has amassed from his eating habits just piles up inside. Due to this, Gluttony's Gate is full of all the objects he has eaten within a massive sea of his victims' blood.
In Chapter 104, Father is revealed to theorize that the Earth itself is a living organism, and therefore has its own gate. Likewise, the combination of moon and sun (a solar eclipse), in alchemical terms representing the perfect being, or God, also has a gate. It is by harnessing the power of both that Father plans to achieve his objective.
In Chapter 108 it is established that the individual gate is what allows people to use alchemy. In the same chapter, it is implied that the Gate itself can be used as a toll in order to retrieve something that was taken by the Truth, but its loss renders the person to whom it belongs permanently unable to use alchemy.
