The Truth, or simply Truth, is an enigmatic, metaphysical being who appears when a person attempts Human Transmutation. Seeing Human Transmutation as an unfair exchange according to the equivalent exchange laws of Alchemy, Truth will bring the Alchemist into the Gate and forcibly take their most valued attribute, or something of value that represents their anticipated relationship to the person they are trying to create or resurrect. Truth will accept otherwise impossible exchanges when a Philosopher's Stone is used, as it or part of it will be used for the exchange instead.
As a negative version or "conscience" of the alchemist who performed Human Transmutation, Truth is perceived by the finite human mind as punishing them for "Playing God" by abusing the power of Alchemy. Truth embodies the universe, serving as both a deity and monad for it, and also represents the consciousnesses and consciences of living things. Truth is all things in the universe. Including all people and, therefore, the closest thing to the concept of "God" to appear in the series. As Truth is the person it is judging, all punishments are ultimately what that person thinks are proper for their transgression.
Aside from humans, all living things possess their own Gate of Truth, through which they can see Truth.
Truth is depicted as a white, featureless version of whoever passes through the Gate; this represents the fact that the only one casting judgement is oneself. The Truth's voice sounds feminine and often ends with a sharp accent. Truth can be seen being in possession of items that it took from the Alchemist when they opened the Gate. In Edward's case, Truth appears as a featureless young boy, but later possesses Edward's arm and leg which were paid as an equivalent exchange for seeing Truth and getting Alphonse Elric's soul back. In Alphonse's case, Truth possesses his entire body and appears as such.
Due to their relative appearance, when Edward Elric and Alphonse Elric each appeared before the Gate, Truth vaguely resembled a young boy and when Izumi Curtis appeared, Truth's shape reflected that of a young woman. It appeared as a vigorous man to Roy Mustang, and when the Dwarf in the Flask entered the Gate, he appeared as the Dwarf's original form when he lived in the flask. Meanwhile, Truth also speaks in the manner similar to the person he met, so as to represent his existence as One, All, Universe, God and Truth along with the claim that he is also the reflection of alchemist themselves who break the taboo. As he speaks in a more stubborn style to Edward, his speaking manner is more polite when he met Alphonse.
Truth presents itself as sadistic and cruel, but fair and wise in its rationality. Each transgression is punished by removing whatever it was that the transgressor most valued such as removing Ed's ability to stand on his own two feet by taking his leg, Alphonse the ability to feel his lost mother's touch, or Izumi's womb, the means to replace the child she lost and tried to bring back.  Its presence acts as a punishment for the ultimate transgression of human transmutation. Truth always does what it believes is fair in trade and will forcefully take from offenders. Truth holds no bias, options or prejudices as it sees all who break the rules of Alchemy as equal in their offenses and thus receiving equal punishment by losing what they value. Truth shows no favorites of victims and no mercy or exceptions.
Above all, Truth aims to uphold the laws that bind the universe and thus punishes any trying to perform acts that cannot or should not happen. Ultimately Truth's seeming malice is a lesson: It wants to teach humans that Alchemy isn't everything, and that it should not cause them to see themselves as above others, that being the ultimate hubris behind all human transmutation. Life and death are to be accepted, not abused. When Edward chose to give up his Gate of Truth to save his brother, Truth emphatically congratulates him for having passed the test and finding the correct answer.
Truth does show some mercy. When Mustang was forcibly put through human transmutation by Pride with the Gold-Toothed Doctor as a sacrifice, Truth blinded Mustang and showed him his inner gate like all other alchemists, allowing him to transmute without drawing a transmutation circle; the physical deterioration that should have gone to him was dealt to Pride instead, causing his Selim Bradley container to begin breaking down.
Truth shows its greatest moment of humor when Father is forced to meet him at the Gate laughing that the Dwarf hadn't grown beyond his flash days and has failed by rejecting his seven sins, and therefore his humanity.
Truth's gleaming smile.
Truth introduces itself as a being that Humans refer to by many names, including God, the World or the Universe. Though Truth initially appears welcoming to those he meets, its attitude quickly changes to one of mild sadism, taking delight in calling attention to their hubris before opening the Gate. Anyone who performs Human Transmutation is immediately brought to Truth, who is typically prompt in taking a toll from the alchemist that summoned it, usually one which metaphorically or ironically evokes that which the transgressor most values in life.
Due to Edward Elric opening the gate in an attempt to bring his mother back through Human Transmutation, Truth takes Edward's left leg and  takes his brother Alphonse Elric’s entire body. Edward opens the gate again and trades his arm for his brother’s soul. Both had encountered it as they were forced to pay their tolls.
Though Truth appears in Edward's dreams, its next true appearance is in Chapter 53, when Edward crosses to the true Gate from inside Gluttony's internal imitation. Truth appears amused, and mocks Edward for not attempting to retrieve what was taken from him in his first attempt at human transmutation. Truth appears as Alphonse here, as the whole of Alphonse's body was taken as his toll.
Izumi Curtis attempted to bring back her child through Human Transmutation, and Truth took some of her internal organs, presumably including part of her reproductive system, leaving her incapable of ever becoming pregnant again and with chronic hematemesis.
It is not confirmed if Van Hohenheim ever saw the Gate, but it can be presumed that his alchemy technique that doesn't even require the normal hand gesture of clapping one's hands together is obtainable by paying an even greater toll upon reaching the gate, letting him see even more of the Truth beyond it.
Roy Mustang, who was forced to open the gate by Pride (with the aid of Wrath), encounters Truth during the battle with Father. Regardless of this conscious decision to not perform Human Transmutation, Truth still had him pay the toll by taking his sight. It is imperative to note, however, that Truth also took away most of Pride's strength (or souls that make up his Stone), as Pride used himself as the Human Transmutation circle, and this may have contributed towards the toll that was paid for opening Mustang's Gate. Unlike the Elric brothers, Mustang went through with the choice to use a Stone as a replacement for his toll and was able to recover his eyesight as shown in the epilogue.
In Chapter 102, Father discusses the irony behind the works of the 'Truth', who took Ed's way to 'stand by himself' and his 'only family', Al's body so he 'cannot feel the mother's warmth as he craved', Izumi's 'capacity to nurture the seed of life' and, now, with Mustang 'depriving the man who had a grand vision to save his country of his eyesight, denying him to see what his beloved nation will become'. In Father's perspective, the Truth is cruel and sadistic, whose only ambition is to make people suffer.
In Chapter 107, Truth appears once more before Alphonse once his body and soul are finally reunited. Truth returns Edward's arm in exchange for Alphonse's soul, while wondering with the younger Elric if his brother will return for him and what he'll sacrifice.
In Chapter 108, Truth appears before Father and mocks him for trying to claim the power of God for himself and for thinking that mankind could be transcended by ridding oneself of the seven deadly sins, alluding to Father that those sins exist to give humanity a chance to transcend in spite of harboring such imperfections. It implies that Father never actually matured beyond its days in the flask. It then banishes Father to depths of the Gate he had been summoned from, commenting ironically that Father must have known this would be his punishment.
When Edward returns to the Gate after the final battle with Father, Truth appears before him and asks what he'll give up in order to bring Alphonse’s entire body back to the human realm. Edward offers his own Gate of Truth, and thus his power of Alchemy in exchange. Truth seems startled, but when Ed declares that the power of alchemy was not what was important in his life, Truth is pleased, congratulating Edward on finding the correct answer and beating it. Truth then vanishes with Edwards gate, after pointing him towards the exit and his brother.
According to Father, Truth's tolls are often based on dramatic irony, oddly unfitting of Equivalent Exchange, which Truth upholds. Edward had to pay for the leg he stood on and the only family he recognized as having left. He then paid his right arm to get Alphonse's soul 'back', which Truth recognized as an equivalent exchange, as one could consider Alphonse being Ed's 'right-hand man'. Alphonse's soul was not used as payment, however, as it was affixed to the result of their human transmutation, which means that his body contributed to the toll. This can be interpreted as its own punishment in multiple ways, such as taking away his sense of touch and cutting him off from other peoples' warmth, or thinking along the same lines, making him become their failed creation and thereby an abomination no one wants to associate with. Izumi lost the ability to conceive at all through the permanent removal of her reproductive organs, depriving her even further of her 'motherhood'. The irony in Mustang's case would be that he would not be able to 'see' the future he would make for Amestris if he were to become Führer.
Truth's, in both its actions, visual representation and stated goal is to show those that would abuse their great power are ultimately harming themselves. This is most evidenced by Ed's final encounter with Truth, as Truth gleefully admits defeat when Ed declares that he does not need Alchemy to be happy, since he has his loved ones by his side. Such an interpretation explains some events such as the final talk between the Truth and Father, when Truth says that the Homunculus hasn't grown and evolved through what he experienced, and that he "already knows" what he should have done and why he was punished like he was. The ultimate representation of this was that while Father directed his pleas to God towards the Door, the only entity that could truly be called God was next to him without him realizing.
Truth's presence, influence, and implications closely tie in with concept on the 'meaning of life'. It also possesses some parallels with the River Styx.
